unlike in east asia , the middle east remains a region mired in turmoil , the complexities of which defies an analytical consensus are a key question . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting can diminish that region ’s importance . another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . do the region , stem from a lack of peace with israel ? the middle east will remain a central pillar of the world ’s energy for decades to come , whether it ultimately can export more energy rather than instability is a key issue .
with russia and america holding 18,000 in the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear-armed , it is demonstrating impossible to designate any of the other nuclear-armed states to lower their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the big two make further drastic cuts to theirs . and pakistan then turns out to be even more determined to try to stay ahead of india . china shares russia with the fears of america ’s conventional and missile-defense supremacy , as well as growing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china taking that course , india , outside of the npt but with $ 100 weapons of its own , feels the need to add to its own arsenal . this logic of deterrence produces a snowball effect .
two centuries later that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries dispersed into which the industrial revolution had spread – for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark . what were the small differences that turned out to matter so much ? early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . what were the small differences that turned out to matter so much ? they came despite a tripling of the population , which imposed extraordinary malthusian pressure on an economy underlying the natural resource base , and , despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for almost a century of intense war against france , a power with three times britain ’s population .
the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to manage , rather than an existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . maybe , who is as tighlipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of the political strategy . another new imf department , the so-called brexit ministry , manages to manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations for the first time . the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the wider global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions appears to be just another crisis under way , rather than an existential implosion that london-centric british papers imagine . may has been in no hurry to act ; or is german chancellor angela merkel ( though she faces re-election next year , an increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says she is ) .
whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb lends to covert terms , for its uses debased and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . the chinese have n’t demanded that venezuela do anything to increase the odds that it regains creditworthiness . nor have they merely demanded more oil as collateral . venezuela has tried to finance itself with the help of the people ’s bank of china ( pbc ) , which does n’t impose the kind of conditionality that the imf bashers dislike . instead , the cdb lends itself to covert terms , for uses leaked and corrupt , and with built-in privileges available to chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty , to replace a fragile international moratorium , can not come into force without american senate ratification . with the defeat of lugar , and the simultaneous exit of recent republican moderates like senator olympia snowe of maine , poised to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties , if need be negotiated . it featured two of obama ’s clips , saying “ “ i worked with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass a law , ” ” ” and , “ what i got was done to us senator dick lugar . it featured obama ’s clips , saying , “ i worked with republican senator dick lugar to roll out us law , ” ” ” ” and then , “ what was accomplished by us senator dick lugar . it featured obama ’s clips , saying that “ i worked with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass laws , ” and then on what was accomplished by former us president dick lugar .
they have called their crime izmena rodine – a betrayal by the motherland – and have married this lofty moral language with minor transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . the insecure states are quicker to sense themselves to act of betrayal . secure states have a tendency to forget about treason , at least for now . perhaps it will imprisonment for assisting terrorists , but its treachery generates little resentment .
like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate burden on people . and , whereas few people now get a ect involuntarily , and in all cases of consent , a large and growing number gets antipsychotic drugs below misleading pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s , and the host of others whose lives are shortened , with no effort made to search for their consent . but , while ect rarely causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . yet there is not a comparable protest against using antipsychotic drugs similarly forced on people – and even used to torture prisoners . like the antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate burden .
new york – singapore ’s trade negotiators recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) ; with a combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . but , owing to serious concerns that the tpp will prove to be failing to consider the important human-rights implications , this is no cause for celebration . whether or not trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complicated question . their economic clout compares with their ambitions ; negotiating goes far beyond traditional commercial issues that account for just five of the 29 proposed chapters ; considering a wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people , not always positively . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries with combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion ; or roughly 40 % of global gdp .
late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world in reaching a consensus on open learning ’s ideals and approaches , committing ourselves in the cape town ’s open education declaration , which was officially released on january 22 . the exciting thing about open education is that free access is only the beginning . open education promises to provide learning materials that are tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ off the rack of ” materials , alongside faster feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvement . and open-learning promises new approaches to collaborative learning about how to leverage socioeconomic interactions among students and teachers around the globe . open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that help leverage social interactions among students and teachers around the world .
in other words , hazy language is necessary to obscure unsavory realities . what , in his view , is the boundaries for america ’s engagement ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification ” ; ” and ethnic cleansing means a “ transfer of populations . ” almost 70 years ago , when george orwell explored the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing ” largely amounts to defending the indefensible . under what conditions would the american claim to be using its capacity ?
nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has doggedly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pilloried western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting that litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as to demonstrate a dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions who still need to lift themselves out of poverty . brussels , to a large number of people in the west , seems to have gone out of a country that maintains a cool head and retains a low profile , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a very good international bust-up . putting the australian mining chief , after all , executive behind bars for ten years , squeezing google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting midlevel official wag his finger over us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all his best way to convince partners of your constructive intentions . the chinese leadership seems mindful of this dilemma , and is , in fact , eager to be dragged into fierce competition with the west or its neighbors .
still , we succeeded in ameliorating it , rather than just normalization of relations but ceasing to end the cold war confrontation itself . fortunately , the experience of the 1980s suggests a way forward . the international situation at that time was no less threatening than today . this was achieved primarily through dialogue . if that continues , europe will lose all the way ahead .
and , as mit ’s economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen have shown , america ’s industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to big firms that have diminishing labor ’s need for . but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age . and , once these firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent the actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . this augmented market concentration is the widening gap between corporations that own bots ( capital ) and workers whom bots replace ( labor ) .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by his political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was the markets , not the european leaders , that reopened their doors to europe ’s fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration alone . do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , particularly that of a “ merkozy ” particular couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? and whom do we have to thank for all of this european progress ? alas , that is no cause for celebration .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against america ’s dollar , the resulting hit in america ’s manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and thus harming the word ’s exporters . demand remains depressed by the debt overhang accumulated prior to 2008 . forecasts for american economic growth have been revised downward substantially since the federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 underscore the global nature of the problem that we face . indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply shifted between sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump ’s administration has been buffeted by a transatlantic alliance that has long seemed unamored . the united states , its position suggests , would be more than a fine . in a january conversation , trump labeled nato an obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking declarations and shameless reversals . the eu will collapse soon , it labeled nato obsolete .
moreover , a social and political environment must be conducive to a high-tech work force , provide the attractive quality of life , ensure civil liberties , and promote entrepreneurship and creativity . all of these industries will reap the benefits of massive demand growth in major markets , such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including by openness to foreign players . moreover , russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a host of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment to mining and hydrocarbon industries . those that have survived this only barely , with vastly reduced output going mainly to the ex-soviet market .
returning to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures being misclassified as an investment . to be sure , the situation is not cut and dried . still , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which implies little risk crowding out the private sector ) , this is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right type of public-investment would probably spur more private-sector investment .
argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for mismanaging the economy , and by american banking interests to force debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , rather than because of a woman . a central issue in such tv programs is not so much in play by women . character , not gender , drives the narrative itself . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is revered or resented by her austerity policies , not for her gender . outside the united states , women already rank at the highest levels of power .
with the unemployment rate now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) – comprising the fed ’s governors and then-fed presidents from the regional federal reserve banks – has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % and may be expected to stay there , or decline even further . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance uninformative and therefore uninformative . bernanke has emphasized that these two policies are on track to outperform tracks and react to different economic indicators ’s performance . with the unemployment rate now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 .
russia , prokhorov concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement aggravating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that has afflicted many of the oil-exporting countries . for the past 20 years , social inequality has risen threefold . according to prokhorov , russia ’s productivity per capita is just 6-10 % that in the us , so the economy ’s struggles , even when the price of oil , its main exports , is peaking . by prokhorov , two million well-educated professionals have recently emigrated from russia . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than at the late 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to ameliorate russia ’s human capital , the key problem holding back russia ’s economy .
harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; that , too , is not precluded by the accord . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s fears about its neighbors , several of which will be tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s potential breakout in the next 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear programs . the world has erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make that same mistake again . instead , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s fears about its neighbors , several of which will be tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s potential breakout in the next 15 years by pursuing a nuclear program of its own . iran should likewise be made aware that america and its allies would commit to a preemptive military strike should it materialize as part of an effort to present a fait accompli .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way judged by the currency ’s underlying strength . for starters , the us dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has pledged to enact deep tax cuts and to ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . at the same time , this will spur near-term economic growth , and will inevitably push interest rates higher . for starters , the us dollar has shot down since the election only because trump has pledged to enact deep tax cuts , and to ramp up spending on infrastructure decaying and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this , in turn , will boost near-term economic growth , and inevitably to push interest rates higher .
as home secretary , she has often won battles against other ministers simply by refusing to voice her views , or even to appear in conversations , until the minutes before a final decision had to make . throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as a winner-take-all strategy . but this fortunate outlook for may rests on one crucial premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unproved . european leaders could easily neutralize , in turn , may ’s threat of a no-deal brexit , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions that she demands . to do that , they need to understand the method behind potentially winning strategies .
and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . indeed , in recent months , north korea has fired a number of ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , spurring the exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump . the problem is most acute in the area of finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . last but not least , service-sector productivity amounts to just the 45 % that the manufacturing sector has done , on average , compared to the oecd average of more than 90 % . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to an escalating north korean nuclear threat .
the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in america , shows that as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , the rights of citizenship can not be denied to members ’ colonial outposts or to certain groups . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces opposing liberal democracy . it is not sustainable for the peoples of smolensk oblast to live under a constitutional democracy , whereas the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the casualties of wanton shelling and destruction . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state feeds on the resources devoted to expansion of russian influence in the " russian " republics . thus , should russia continue along an imperialist line , its " democracy " will be at risk .
from the japanese perspective , there was an “ victimization ” of victimization , '' '' in which `` atomic bombs became the symbol of a specific type of distress -- akin to the holocaust to the jews . at the hiroshima museum itself , the victim ’s role was exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government 's responsibility to abandon and pursue a war , or the inhumane treatment the prisoners of war or the subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule are ever adequately acknowledged . whether we identify with heroes or aids , with an airplane pilots putting an end to wwii , or with a passive population subjected to the infertile of atomic annihilation , we are always always rooting for the `` innocents '' and the `` `` good guys '' go . ''
accountability mechanisms should be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . the framework also should include a requirement of indiscriminate use , to ensure that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups , rather than merely the well-well-connected , the literate , and the favorites of the regime , rather than just the groups for which quick victory can be delivered . this removes the stigma of a charity and makes empowering the victims . the intended recipients of such actions should be categorized as rights-oriented . instead of being helped because they have unsatisfied needs , they are granted remedies , because their rights are being violated .
the most important problem that must be resolved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . first , american firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partners and share their technologies with that firm . that compulsory sharing of technology is explicitly forbidden by the world trade organization ’s rules . here , the chinese are doing this in two ways . first , american firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner , sharing their technologies with that firm .
but the battle within islam is neither a satisfactory nor an adequate explanation for the state of anarchy that we are seeing in egypt so much as south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained independence from the country just over three years ago . yet the battle within islam is hardly a satisfactory or adequate explanation of a state of anarchy we are seeing in places like south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained independence just over three years ago . that struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . while the world ’s newest country has emerged out of a bitter civil war among christians and muslims , the independence referendum has received 99 % support . it is ripping up countries and regions , luring people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , just as it does against christians , jews , and elsewhere .
with that one unilateral decision , iran has destabilized the rest of europe . in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began out as a program whereby the us treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from us financial institutions . but that proved more complicated than originally thought , and in a few weeks afterwards , the us government simply recapitalized us banks in place . hoping to prevent a bank run , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed .
hate speech and other kinds of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked at the sources of it . on the other hand , this does not require a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech . on the other hand , and this should be what netzdg attempts to secure , social-media platforms need to ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible use . but that is no speedier fix . on one side is required by increased media literacy on a small fraction of consumers , who must be taught , from the young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech .
independently of what we think of britain leaving the eu , we might ask two other questions , one general and one particular to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy make decisions directly , in a referendum , rather than through its elected representatives ? on the general question , the strongest argument for a direct democracy is that it follows from the vision of a democracy itself , subject only to the feasibility constraint . and , more carefully stated , should british legislators consider themselves bound by the result of the june 23 referendum ? in earlier times , small city-states might have been direct democracies ; but , in larger countries , where communication was slow , voting was required to choose the many questions that needed to be debated and voted upon .
what supporters of encryption recognize are that “ if american companies maintain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on their request , governments other than the united states will demand the same access , and will also be emboldened to demand the same capability from their native companies . ” beyond “ undermining any american ’s cyber security and the nation ’s economic security , ” ” the signers have argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . they regard a backdoor request by the same likes of the automobile manufacturer , if they consider a request from a defective engine . similar coalition of technology firms and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama by arguing against backdoors .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , the most recent drama , like those preceding it , risk obscuring more vital issues . kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad – suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal , following its online circulation of sex videos involving a cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the result of imprisonment by people ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s justice , religious record .
but is politics really turning a page on the traditional right-left cleavage ? at a time of much hand-wringing over the decay of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance . as a democrat , he believes that deepening europe must go hand in hand with developments in a truly european political space . in fact , macron has made the leap towards the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a terrain , no longer defined by the competition between large center-right and center-left parties . macron has also signaled that he will pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament elections .
fewer still have recognized that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility to its rogue neighbor – is a chinese invasion , or a regime change forced through china ’s threat to launch one . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason that it needs serious attention , including by chinese military planners . in trumpian manner , this is a “ “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ” that outcome , which would meaningfully shift east asia ’s strategic balance in favor of china , is not as implausible as most people think . london , most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is through a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy .
as a result , “ ever since the world economic forum began to discuss personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the proposition that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ of the digital economy as much as we have – so much so in politics . ” “‘ data management platforms ’ like those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles of hundreds of millions of users . nor is it just facebook and google , apple , or amazon , which harvesting and using our purpose to think , ” spiekermann says . as a result , “ more than 1,000 companies are now engaged in a digital information value chain that harvests on any online activity , and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users in roughly 36 seconds of their entrance to the digital realm . ” spiekermann , a global authority on the trafficking of us online identities for purposes of targeted ads , political propaganda , public and private oversight , or other nefarious uses that emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ”
but increased trade also can eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower the price of agricultural products , outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustment in the short term . given constraints on cross-sectoral labor mobility – stemming from barriers to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations – the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in regions facing increased foreign competition . it is leveraging poor access to a wider range of commodities , while giving firms more diverse choices about inputs .
and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions might benefit most from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to put it down . kenyans need a similar means of reflection nowadays . but it has also proven that press freedom means far more than letting journalists tell what they want when they want and how they want it . for kenya , its very public bankruptcy comes at a high cost . it also means keeping media owners accountable .
simply loose interest rates did not and will not lead firms to invest more in these industries . the good news -- and the bad -- is that the pace of technological change in these industries is fast enough that much equipment may become obsolete well before it is worn out or even used , enabled by new investment to begin quicker than it otherwise would have been . the us recession of 2001 combined a housing bust with an investment bust . merely lowering interest rates was not there , and will not , leading firms to invest more in these industries . the first is over ; the second is the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecoms , sectors that were so important during the post-1945 boom , can last a lot longer .
two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow suit . as soon as the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiations are set by early next year , can formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . by that time , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . the three brexiteers , having fought one another like the “ rats in sack , ” will have to come up with a package . once may ’s bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiations are laid down by early next year , may formally launches a withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by a student protest against the vietnam war . now , young poles have taken to the streets of warsaw not to chanting “ ho , ” ho chi minh , in solidarity with the “ viet cong ” but rather to defend their own country ’s freedoms and culture against the smothering communist rule . these are but a handful of distinctions between western and east european students in that springtime of the rebellion of forty years ago . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles poured flowers under a monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve on the struggle for freedom , was , more recently , labeled subversive and anti-soviet , and his performance in polish national theater in warsaw closed down . in warsaw , too , whereas students protested , their cause was not the same as that of their western counterparts .
consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality that runs from zero to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle - and low-income countries , and also with the data that are available for the advanced countries . preliminary conclusions emerging from such studies will illuminate political debates , and probably annoy ideologues for either the right and the left . the average gini score ( rather “ weighted ” by the population ) in countries for which data are reduced slightly in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . preliminary conclusions that emerge from these studies will illuminate political debates , and probably annoy ideologues for either the right and the left .
with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity growth is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth at around 7 % annual pace , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the final piece of the puzzle for china is one of realism . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities may be able to rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation and structural vulnerabilities . likewise , while policies encouraging firms to raise wages will raise household income and domestic consumption , wage increases may erode export competitiveness and choke off foreign direct investment inflows .
but orbán is doing so at the eu level in 2017 . it is worth remembering that in order to join the eu , hungary had to comply with stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has introduced a paradox to the eu . but , by closing such a prominent us-supported institution , orbán may be able to send the message that no one who has opposed him has ever won . despots throughout history have had the same tactics .
soros : the ecb is an institution functioning institution . that is why i am hopeful that something really might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . this is why i am hopeful that something really significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . so long as it behaves within its power , germany does not have a mandate to veto it . soros : i have been discussing this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism .
in fact , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate on productivity growth has actually increased by a factor of four . by moving away from a student-level universal eligibility to one that found a more suitable fit for all post-high school students , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . social mobility in france has had no discernible change since 1991 . moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or boost poverty . macron ’s revolution , after all , is on the move .
reforming brazil ’s public-private relationship can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . but while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing official institutions of corruption and punishing the offenders . there is now a widespread perception that those engaged in illicit dealings have at least a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their socioeconomic standing . yet , while many observers have focused on the calculus of illicit dealings , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming brazil ’s relations with the public and private sector can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance .
even in the new eu member states , enthusiasm for a european family of democracies is cooling . they have difficulty seeing what is common in europe . as union races ahead , it appears that it has lost europe ’s citizens along the way . many are turning their backs on the entire project , and are setting them back . they feel no sense part of the great all at once .
another prominent escapee from its special attorney general , jared kushner , was widely believed to have used his white house role , particularly in us foreign policy ( in which trump had no experience ) to attend his family ’s need to bail out massive real-estate debt . these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with russia ’s ambassador during the transition ( presumably regarding lifting the sanctions that us president barack obama had imposed on russian businesses ) . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations , or are being handed out to the federal and state prosecutors outside of washington , dc . it has been widely expected that trump ’s son , donald trump , jr. , together with other top-ranking campaign officials , met in trump tower with an russia-us intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin that have been promising to be “ dirt . ” moreover , the us president , donald trump ’s son , jr. , together with other top us campaign officials , has met in trump tower with a russian intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin that have promised “ dirt . ”
in fact , america and its allies simply do n’t like the results of an arab democracy that all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and hazardous to america ’s oil interests . the us can not stop the downward spiral of violence in the middle east . hindu dealings and violence continue at the hands of the day . when the baltic states go in that direction , the americans simply ignore recent electoral outcomes ( as it did in 2006 , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . pundits contend that arabs can not manage democracy at all .
cambridge : after wasted decade , the world is rousing itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , particularly africa and south-asia . in parts of south africa more than 20 % of the world ’s adults are afflicted . whereas first identified in the americas in the early 1980 ’s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : approximately 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; six million more in asia . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives , creating 13 million orphans . every year , 34 million more people live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked for premature death .
in most cases , laws for skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . oceans belong to all but those near landmasses administered in similar ways to countries ’ land-locked borders . airliners and fighter planes operate in “ controlled ” air close to the ground , while nationality supposedly matters less to you go . as a result , the skies are typically conceptualized . fragile treaties covering that are enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can afford to run the assets that high .
and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age and the coming end of the industrial age completely . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of all ” of this . in fact , few other trends pose a bigger threat to global stability . nearly every society has become massively dependent on the internet , the world ’s most important slice of infrastructure , and also the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies altogether . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already exploiting .
china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that the economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against high-volume private ownership , including in agriculture . in china , most soes have survived because central planners have emphasized economic autarky , regardless of cost . the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the hollowing out of steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . jamaica , say , does not produce freezing salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism provides far more of that gain .
still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework has locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , perhaps too-low inflation and high debt . as a result , italians have been opting for an unconventional coalition whose agenda combines populist policies with those of the populist right . yet , even before the new government assumed office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit as opposed to its underlying debt position , was often rather restrained in comparison with the rest of europe , as did the rest of the g7 ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . as a result , italians elected the unconventional coalition , whose program combines the populist left policies with those of the populist right .
for that to happen , governments need to deploy both the carrot and the stick . encouraging foreign investment , or liberalizing everything and then waiting for things to improve , does n’t work . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge of its economic development . the carrot is urgently needed , because there is great social value in discovering , such as cutting flowers , or soccer circles ; or using computer software can be produced at low cost because this knowledge can orient the investments of other entrepreneurs . an effective strategy must meet two tasks : stimulate investment in non-traditional fields and muzzle projects and investments in failed areas .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the effects of the cyclical rebound , an estimated 1.2 % annual growth in real gdp would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % – significantly higher than the 1.9 % pace of the decade ending in 2009 . but not all of the extra output produced over the coming decade could be equally significant . if the trade deficit were to decline by about 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied us export boom and import decline would lower the output that is available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year . the effect of a falling dollar over the coming decade could be just as significant . combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the effect of the cyclical rebound , an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in us real gdp would produce annual real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % – significantly higher than the 1.9 % pace of the decade ending in 2009 .
as a result , argentina either needs to pay full or default on its new bonds . the holdouts argued that if the new bonds were servicing full ( as they are ) , the equal treatment demanded that the holdouts obtain the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . the american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was obliged to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders in an equal proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as the holders of exchange bonds . as a result , argentina must either pay out the holdouts in full or default on their new bonds . under the court order , argentina might not pay the holders of new bonds unless it also pays the holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as the intermediary to make payments to argentina .
zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , admits that china ’s mega-projects will fundamentally transform the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , “ while presenting china as a “ strong yet benign ” power . this is important because the new asian order will be determined less by development in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . but china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry . after all , china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project aimed at building a sprawling complicated roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , the “ port city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road . ” to its credit , india is certainly suspicious of china ’s behavior .
at the same time , the modi government adopted the upa-proposed tariffs on goods and services that stalled the trump-ruled states ’ opposition ( including modi ’s ’s gujarat ) . and it will bolster modi ’s honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india a newly affable leader . indian citizens who thought they had voted for change are starting to wonder whether the bjp had simply reprised the upa government ’s policies . many modi supporters in the news media have already started pretending that the string of political abdications modi has carried out since his campaign . yet sharif has been an honored guest on modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in what it calls the “ war on terror , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs , combined with the charter of the stability charter , has become urgent . a regional agenda must be designed to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policy , arms control , and debt-reduction measures . we should look to the helsinki process to showcase how to retrieve what was doomed . in every conflict , human rights rank among the first casualties , and , in the middle east , human-rights degradation was now undone by international conventions agreed upon several generations .
when the oecd proposed an agreement to curb bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . who , after all , might have predicted that bill clinton would follow america ’s president committed to undermining the multilateral system under all of its manifestations ? they did what they could have done to ensure that no meaningful reforms existed during the crisis , with the deep knowledge that post-crisis momentum would dissipate . for example , when the imf correctly suggested , after argentina ’s crisis , that there was a need for better debt-restructuring measures ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , america vetoed the initiative . they did more than it did .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control of hong kong ’s governance . as the south china sea morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only wide-ranging public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , allowed for chinese soil . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to hong kong ’s handover to china 20 years ago . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s demonstration reflected a surge of frustration , not only by china ’s leaders , of violent repression by pro-democracy protestors in beijing .
and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also needs to be the effective diagnosis of the situation faced by the group . what plays well with one group might not sit well with the next . in order to pick goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not only to solicit inputs from their followers , but also to grasp the context of their choices . they need to take stock of the reality that is accurately wrong . looking ahead , they need to gain the freedom to assess reality well beyond proposing answers .
finally , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation , if at all . but , by making matters worse for business and investment , economic sanctions take their toll mainly on the private sector . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the scarcity that they inflict . at the same time , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a very interesting reference point for the analysts of the arab revolutions , it is not an appropriate benchmark , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order led to a change of external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union made sense . no power anywhere , within or without borders , is willing and able to implement a barest vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for parts of it . nothing of the sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis zones . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire .
after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has started its long march back for normalization . now , it has been taking a first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rate – the us federal funds rate – into a level in which imparts neither stimulus nor restraint to the american economy . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has started its long march back toward normalization . a supermajority of financial-market players are hoping that this strategy is . new haven , by that point , is an all-too-familiar drill .
de gregorio , a view different from that of many from his peers in other countries , is that he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become bigger , using what he calls “ clever ” strategies that require vast leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risks , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees are needed to be honored . the dangers for central banks stem from the fact that the implicit subsidies provided to major financial institutions are not measured in any budget way . higher leverage generates macroeconomic risk , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees must be made public . moreover , the buildup of risk within the financial system , which accompanies higher leverage , is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after several years ( after the governor ’s term expired ) .
new york – no shortage of scrutiny has emerged , owing to what russian president vladimir putin appears to be up to in syria , and why . as bad as the assad government gets and just like it has to answer for , this outcome is unquestionably preferable in the short run to a regime collapse . russian bombs and missiles are now raking down on a array of armed groups fighting the syrian government ’s forces , giving the regime the breathing space that russia ’s intervention was predestined to deliver . what we know is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s ’s embattled regime . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on the short term , may prove to be all too negative when assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences .
that might be because richer countries observe rules better , attracting complaints as their labor costs rise or some combination of the two . using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( the log that is on the vertical axis of graph below ) tends to decline as the exporter level rises ( revealed by the log on the axis of the horizontal axis ) . this may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework . using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( the log of which passes on the vertical axis of graph below ) tends to decline as the exporter level rises ( shown by a log on a horizontal axis ) . each blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy and a solid black line shows the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) .
the brexiteers will scoff at such a “ soft ” exit , but probably would be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . if the brexit trajectory turns out to be that way , it would be a fair illustration of a dual character and functioning , both politically . most bets now seem to be about britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement with the eu . john maynard keynes positioned the matter well : “ words ought to be a bit savage , because they are an assault on thinking unthinking , ” he wrote in 1933 . the referendum resolve to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic effects are likely to be delayed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology .
europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians , and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s road map , was on the center stage of attention . the atmosphere might not have been more tranquil : a former saudi royalty castle in the taunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians were holding an annual meeting to deal with the middle east . on the opening night , the senior german government minister , himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity both to israeli and palestinian concerns . the novelty this year was the presence of post-saddam iraq : a former saudi royalty castle in the kurdish regional government near frankfurt , as well as a high ranking shi’a representative .
last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite an almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers ( tawarih ( through near prayers , including a short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyyyyyam ( another late-night prayulia ) , suhur ( yet another collective food meal ) , and then morning our prayers . and ramadan – now underway – is mobiliation-friendly . the past 10 days of ramadan is i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open-field operations . after sunset , a collective program exists .
as africa ’s leading development-finance institution , the african development bank will be supporting our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social-safety nets , and outlining the foundations of a robust economic recovery . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along every group of segments of its population and without giving voice to all . as the us finances its infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will look for ways to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural communities more effectively . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors , cooperating more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and the media , and including academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and industry associations . with the emerging democratic dispensation , we have partners with whom we can engage in governance issues .
even many of the poorest countries seemed to have long ago to join , posting strong growth after rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investments from abroad , and increase fiscal revenues . indeed , while the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they have deflect attention away from the shaky fundamentals of newfound prosperity . the growing need for action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change the winning formula ? ” the real-estate and stock-market contraction will undoubtedly dampen us household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . the fate of the rest of the world depends on answers to the unfolding financial turmoil .
manila – food scarcity is a distant memory for many people in asia . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for one-half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a mushrooming population , they could become a painful reality of life again . already , asia is by far the world ’s largest food market ; and by 2050 , its population is projected to grow by more than five billion , a rise of more than 900 million people . and by that point , more than 60 % of total cereal demand in the developing world comes from south and east asia .
this is not to say that an american should necessarily engage with every issue . but , whether an american one is engaged or not , that need a policy . what the american people need is a better explanation for its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east in its mounting problems . syria is a case in point . the situation , predictable by every pundit around , has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war .
everybody , from households to companies to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : the data . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated , either . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse pool of weapons , cyber-attacks take place on a speedier pace , and with greater sophistication than ever before . with the attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , arming an increasingly diverse pool of weapons , cyber-attacks occur at an even faster pace , and with more sophistication than at any time in history . london – cybersecurity is one defining challenge .
integrating migrants makes a lot of sense ; but creating sustainable conditions in troubled countries , with the help of a generation of emigrating , already prosperous regions , can be created . in that sense , more portugal and the netherlands can not be created ; rather , they can be made to create sustainable conditions in troubled countries , with the benefit of a generation of emigrating , who first transfer resources , and then go back . this is not the only way forward , which appears to be viewed alongside it . viewed from perspective , such truths provide , the european union ’s eastward enlargement , for example , is a very desirable not despite but because it can result in migration from the new eu member states to the old . many of the consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate .
we know that iron deficiency leads to cognitive and developmental challenges . for $ 286 million we could have iodized salt and fortified staple food items to 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum . fortifying manufactured products with an iron cost of as little as $ 0.12 per person every year would have done . providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment . the cost is minuscule : reach 80 % of the world ’s 140 million or so undernourished children would require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum .
standardization and liberalization in european telecoms underpinned a 9 % growth in the value added and productivity of this era , respectively , relative to american growth . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with the actions of policymakers . even if european countries were to close just 10 % variation in us-centric capital stock per student , the impact could have been more than € 360 billion ( $ 354 billion ) in additional investment , offsetting € 354 billion in private investment between 2007 and 2011 . the single most critical channel for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries , in which the us government has a significant presence as a regulator . numerous projects , from airports to university campuses , are contributing to returns over a decade that implies that weakness in short-term demand will have only limited effect on their overall viability .
indeed , after averaging three percentage points over two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has fallen to about 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today . as a result , the differential between growth in the emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from the imf data and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in an emerging group – has declined considerably . those who believe that it will , typically rely on three arguments , all of which call for some qualification . first , they argue , much convergence has already erupted in manufacturing .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards has introduced high levels of moral hazard and created perverse incentives among governments and market participants alike . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all those advocating risk sharing . making matters worse , sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . under the most recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should be liable for being replaced by some principle of joint liability , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when a crisis struck . these include high levels of public and private debt ; weak institutions ; over-regulated markets ; and , despite incomplete balance-sheet corrections on a part of corporations and banks .
the hoped-for break with the past did not emerge , as political infighting among poland ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . the failure came as a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . but 2004 was also a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who tried to rally his favored presidential nominee , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv , by supporting massive voter manipulation . the hoped-for breaking with the past did not emerge , owing to political infighting among the country ’s favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . the failure was a nasty blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten .
following the east asian crisis of 1997 , there were seven years of capital flight . perhaps , if we had some causal theory that might explain such periodicity to the field of international capital flows , perhaps if we had had held some sort of causal theory that might have explained about whether or not periodicity had suffered . are a few data points and a biblical parable to take the hypothesis of an earlier 15-year cycle seriously ? if history repeats itself , it is now time for a third , “ sudden stop ” ” ” ” of capital inflows to emerging markets . if history repeats itself , it is now time for a sudden stop to ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ”
hamilton and madison did n’t want a country ’s capital to be found in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support moving it toward an area carved out of virginia or maryland . in fact , despite the massive costs , over half of the fledgling government ’s expenditures in early years went to debt service , the economy bounced back by the 1780 ’s depression and entered a growth boom . in turn , they would secure the votes of the federal government , which they assume , and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . a responsible fiscal state emerged from this grand compromise . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than ours .
digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and government . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower fraud rates , cut customer intrusions costs , spur financial inclusion , and deepen savings and under-banked customer loan loans . digital id systems – which have been successful in driving high adoption – may have created significant economic value for individuals , companies , and governments alike . digital ids could even establish a channel for control of data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems . digital id could play a much more expansionary role in the way that individuals and institutions interact with one another .
but the second revolution , which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power , produced a regime run by the old , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of treason . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue cheating of workers and peasants . the first revolution of 1917 overthrew the czar nicholas i , creating a provisional government run headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , proved to be a transitional blip . but if the revolutions are aborted , its leaders will be unmasquerade as empty windbags . if the revolutions continue apace , it dissecures a incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to talk openly about developing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its care . moreover , such a solution would have protected the fed ’s critical independence from its monetary-policy role . below it , there is an opportunity to make a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the comptroller of the currency , the office of thrift supervision , and the regulatory functions of the regional feds . the crisis has demonstrated that we need this plain talk . in a perfect world , one would add in some state banking regulators , but i recognize that at that point i began trample on the cherished features of the american constitution !
the survival of artisanal vendors should not be used as a pretext for introducing or addressing the business regulation that ultimately protects the incumbent wealthy . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . in india , for example , there is some fear that little mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed when wal-mart joins the market in the coming months . asian policymakers must remember how they have successfully developed their manufacturing industries through competition . in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed when wal-mart enters the market in the next few months .
toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn , financial history imposes a penalty for a sadistic twist , it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . the postwar financial regulatory system was founded on three supposed lessons from the 1930s . first , we thought that the primary reason why banks fail is that depositors ’ panic , not that the main reason depositors ’ panic is that banks risk failing . today ’s crisis is no exception ; it is not . time and again , financial crises reflect the vulnerabilities of regulatory systems that were founded on the lessons learned from previous crises .
the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling as well . for china , the greatest prize comes from the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an arrangement would be a near-term boon for xi , because it represents a vote of confidence on america ’s struggling economy . in practical terms , a us-china little would make it easier for chinese actors to invest and operate in america , and enhance american firms ’ access to chinese markets . but prospects for some are uncertain , at best .
the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario , too vividly portrayed in the hollywood movie the day after tomorrow , is thought to be “ very unlikely . ” in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-meter sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario , too vividly depicted in a hollywood movie the day after tomorrow , is thought to be “ very unlikely . ” that is particularly interesting , given that it fundamentally refutes another gore ’s scenario : that global warming might inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-meter sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . this is particularly interesting , given that it fundamentally rejects one of gore ’s greatest sea-level rise : that global warming might inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland .
for starters , lowering the cost of imports will boost chinese households ’ purchasing power and their access to products that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment , which in turn boosts their global competitiveness ; another channel through which lower import barriers may end up boosting us exports . and , even if us import expo expands rather than reduce production , a country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other advantages . it is important to note that china may still be able to reduce its bilateral trade surplus vis-à-vis some specific partner , even as its overall surplus rises . last but not least , the international export-import expo will complement china ’s other liberalizing measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms .
across the west , many are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means of putting economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet countries is to be understood to entail the doctrine of a “ liberal empire , ” ” ” under which russia ’s major government-owned and privately owned companies should assume control of key economic players across the caucasus ’s territories by acquiring their assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that an empire of the “ new russia dream ” should be constructed through purely economic means , excluding all forcible action against other peoples . using a “ energy weapon ” , however , is no mere tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . naturally , a key role in this model is given to energy supplies to the post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is very close to translating major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provisions reduce the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 20 % , from the top 1 trillion in all oecd countries to one of the lowest in the world , and enable us companies to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without paying an additional american tax . i dislike the budget deficits and have long warned of their perilous effects . nonetheless , i believe that the economic benefits implied by corporate tax changes will outweigh the adverse impacts of increased us government debt over the next ten years . opponents of the bill highlight the resulting increase in the us federal budget deficit , which will add $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years .
to see why , consider the case of japan . we need a group of major economies , call it the “ reg major ” – that is , reannouncing monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by issuing liquidity , prompting the bank of japan ( boj ) to take action once again . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to encourage some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . these actions are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency war .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a more recent study . the results are similar , even if one does have responsibilities in the first three months , or in the first few quarters , of a president ’s term for his predecessor . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii era ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republican administrations . if one heads back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even bigger . if one moves back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even bigger .
indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , was arrested on ludicrous charges of “ fomenting crime . ” it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan protesters the same thing . terms at office have expired for the prosecutor-general , members of the national electoral commission , and the supreme court justices , but no successors have been named because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition , and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials to his ballot . it would be preposterous to tell ukrainian protesters facing down the ludicrous charges of “ fomenting crime ” with them . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones to decide their own destiny , but a democratic means to do so are being denied to them .
true , far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that the nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism , which tends to say that it is a globalizing creed ; essentially it knows no national benefit . yet in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point . it is easy to see why .
determining the validity of such worries requires an understanding of what drives china ’s economic slowdown . at a recent g-20 finance ministers meeting in shanghai , the participants asked a lot of the same question – and not just with respect to the medium-term expectation of weak global growth . london – “ what if this is ‘ ‘ good ’ as it goes ’ – ” – is ” ” ” ” ” ” ” what , in getting it ? jack nicholson asks , because he walks through his psychiatrist waiting room in the eponymous movie . many are now wondering whether china will be as good as it will arrive for long .
that agenda comes at a time of direct confrontation with the interests of global capital and governments that have grown used to functioning without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , because protesters ’ agendas , from occupy wall street to occupy moscow , gain further coherence . the internet is also disseminating the templates of what a true democracy appears to be doing – both instantly and globally . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , because protesters ’ agendas , from occupy wall street to occupy moscow , gain further coherence . overwhelmingly , they want easy democracy and economic self-determination , and the rule of law .
when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the cost of servicing the debt will require a higher tax , hurting economic incentives , and eroding economic activity . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise have been available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . these days , too , firms worry that raising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . but the three of the european union ’s four largest economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , have all large debts and annual deficits that emphasize even higher future debt ratios . that is a worrying prospect for all of them .
the fastest growing industries of the economy since the late nineteenth century were those loosely categorized as service industries ; ” often involving the diffusion of information and amusement – activities in which jews were particularly prominent , from the time they were published to ludeville and movies to commercial sports . the fact that jews have long been an object of discrimination is sometimes given a justification for their propensity to dedicate to commerce , finance , and professions . they have also tended to do disproportionately well in learned occupations like medicine , law , and accountant , which are so central to a modern capitalist society . yet not all minorities have long been prone to discrimination necessarily success under conditions of market competition . they have pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box stores .
crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we propose a new – holistic framework , developed by a single planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies – we propose a new , holistic framework developed by the one planet lab working group on sustainable infrastructure financing , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . until now , large parts of the world have funded sustainable infrastructure largely through multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . the framework , called “ “ “ “ “ vision ” for an environmentally responsible transition , “ infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ” ) , aims to help unlock the projects ’ pipeline and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to massive investments by institutional investors
in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb and a lot of new dynamite throughout the region . moreover , the new superpowers with their own national interests – namely , china and india – have come onto the international scene . today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and in contrast to 2001 ) , the us appears crucially weakened , if at all . without support from china and india , america ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed , but that support is receiving only half-heartedly , if at all . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support .
skeptics argue that competition and technology wreak havoc on company harmony ; that they generate inequality and eviscerate the global middle class . true , it provides a chance for energetic people formerly on the sidelines . but this is no longer the american story , either . creative destruction ( intensified by economic openness and technology ) produces sweeping the world . true , the new economy is tough for those who sit on its back sides , and live at the expense of the stockholders or the taxpayer .
chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer earned a similar , if smaller , definitive , criticism . chest x-rays for lung cancer and a pap test for cervical cancer have received comparable , if smaller , definitive , criticism . indeed , even a mammogram ( nearly $ 40 million is provided for the u.k. ) that detects cancer does not necessarily save lives . the next step in revising cancer screening captured the previous year , when researchers at the dartmouth institute for healthcare policy reported the costs of screening for breast-cancer screening were often minimized and that the benefits were greatly exaggerated . either cancers were growing so slowly that they did not pose an issue , or would treat each other successfully if detected clinically later ( or so aggressive that little could be done ) .
fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . a new study argues that there is now an additional 70 % of the chance that the world ’s population wo n’t peak this century , and a staggering 80 % chance of reaching 9.6-12.3 billion by 2100 . this matters , because a rising population may be an even bigger problem than was previously thought . providing contraception for an estimated 215 million women worldwide – a substantial share of them in africa who want to avoid pregnancy – would cost just about $ 3.6 billion annually . sub-saharan africa , persistently the poorest region , will be the primary engine of demographic growth .
in sharp contrast to the bri , the chinese , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement are not driving the current conflict . state-owned enterprises should be free to offer as well , but they should be given little favors . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . again , the fundamental problem in iraq is not jobs ; there are jobs . this is a struggle for power , not economic justice or a better life .
this was true even during the cold war and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to recognize it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia by acting like energy , climate change , and iran , all of which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . on russia since his invasion of georgia , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of congress to visit georgian after invading ) emphasize helping georgian to rebuild its economy and maintaining its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . such measures might ultimately be necessary , but they would not help georgian survive as an independent democracy . moreover , even after georgian outrage , there are issues of shared interest , such as energy , climate change , and iran upon which the west and the kremlin must cooperate .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
in yemen , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos and decimated the central-government already well in the north . the south remains lawless , whereas the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to the ill-consolidated government in tripoli . in yemen , meanwhile , the possibility of adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems , dragging yemen toward yet another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence ; dragging yemen into another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . central authority is being progressively eroding as the country continues to splinter itself within its ethnic and sectarian regions , with the de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a broad consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and stimulate economic growth . many were instructed , however , to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies . many were instructed , however , to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies . this turned out to be the grave mistake . in europe , in particular , governments became lambasted for their high debts , even when private debt , rather than public borrowing , caused the collapse .
in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead has far-reaching reforms in this direction . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide , and the knowledge they need to decide well . likewise , the goal of the socialist international has been a world governed not by free markets , but by free people . this means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabilities , and empowering citizens through education and participation . we need to fight back from our political parties simply as we fight political exclusion in our societies .
indeed , unlike europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in production , both broadly and in petrochemicals , in particular . in contrast to europe , the united states appears to be emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . its banking and the household sector has made some progress in deleveraging . now , banking and the household sector has made some progress in deleveraging .
this divided attitude meant that china tended to overreact in ways as contradictory as they were impassioned and unpredictable , particularly as its pride was piqued . nothing was more repugnant to china ’s new nationalist than the thinking of soft , aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing did more repugnant to china ’s new nationalist than that of the frail and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing provoked a more muscular response following mao ’s return to power than the humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation . nothing provoked a more muscular response following mao ’s return to power than the humiliating prospect of a frustrated china for its own democracy , openness , energy , and a willingness to help . yet , all along the following , as i first went to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was emblazoned with this slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running little dogs ” ; she was
even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype – similar to that of niall gold rushes and stock-market bubbles in the past . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields are doing . third , we confront steeply rising fossil-fuel prices , as developing countries ’ growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas . sure , we can find more fossil-fuel energy , but at a far higher cost – and at a far greater ecological risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other kinds of damages . and they are environmentally sound at boot .
meanwhile , labour seems to hope for who-knows-what to turn the tide , while retaining its collective fingers have crossed that they wo n’t be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the boards . support for the two major contenders , labour ’s party and the ruling conservative party , now seems stuck in low innately , rolling 30s . conservatives hope that the government ’s ’s track record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to disrupt their favoritism late in the campaign . london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a bit more than a month away ; but already the campaign appears to have gone with the us , forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even meaningful movement in the polls . perhaps they are right ; they deserve .
recent laboratory research indicates that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many decisions our brains tend to make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush may have opted to invade iraq and overthrow saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : strategic advantage , humanitarian concerns , and even competition with his or her father . most were not involved in weapons of mass destruction , either or in the form of economic weapons of mass destruction ( wmd . ) the second insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns about the role of consciousness in decision making . is this really an american tradition not interested in what will happen to others ?
but this makes for implementing open trade policies all the more crucial , for they are the best tools at our disposal to compensate for the bad cards that nature sometimes deals . other factors besides trade policy also matter . fiscal restraint as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth is also important . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protecting against haptic violence is among other important factors in promoting economic growth . geographic location is also important because , like distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soils hinder economic growth in developing countries .
but the biodiversity upon which all of us depend comes under threat , as human activity devastates forests and other plant-rich habitats . durham , north carolina , is eating a different story about food and medicines , including my daily 81 mg doses of aspirin . a brightly color orchid enlivens my study , and , through our window , catch a glimpse of my green garden . durham , north carolina , my day begins with a coffee cup , and ends with a hot chocolate . in short , my own life , like any other of us , is permissible , enriched , and extended through a wide variety of plants and derivatives .
ramallah , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would have seemed mundane if it was not that even that dangerous . after all , the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to suspend settlement activities in the occupied territories . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke while . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble even more fully to soak up more palestinian land , to build more exclusively jewish settlements , and to bring down more arab homes , before the so-called “ freeze ” comes into effect . eventually , world pressure subsides , and a freeze on gaza does not materialize .
san francisco , there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to keep “ stable prices ” out of hand , as enunciated in the us federal reserve act , and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . by contrast , when a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same kind of items that $ 100 can buy today will cost $ 122 by the end of the decade , relative to the end of the decade . the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory letter : bundle of goods will cost the same ten or 50 or even 100 years from now . so how , exactly , can policymakers manage to compensate for the latter ?
many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest pool of migrants ; it also drives a brain drain away from the countries that need highly skilled workforce . but , once again , one has to look at the trade-off : italy . as france ’s liberal myself , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them as a matter of policy ultimately undermines migrants ’ own interests . with the vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one need to ask whether working-age people are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or not be admitted on all . skills-biased immigration gives rise to an analogous dilemma .
such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . instead , the reforms were decreed from high above , with no grassroots support and thus with no lasting durability . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which presidential elections are a apathetic or worrying , but also in the absence of an apparent stable advanced guard , like the powerful political parties that elect leaders and check them . all of us have been direct appeals to the street , and the masses , rather than encouragement , of genuine social consensus . we must recognize that and understand that this emerges not only when the public is a apathetic or a frightened process , but also when there is no apparent stable advanced guard , like the powerful political parties that elect leaders and controls .
to be sure , greece ’s youth-unemployment ratio of 13 % , or 19 % , is not a grounds for complacency . but , whereas the eurozone ’s youthful unemployment rate has risen since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( albeit both substantially above the pre-2008 level ) . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % , in the united kingdom , france , spain , and germany . and the eurozone-wide 20.8 % ratio is well above the 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , greece ’s youth unemployment rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is just 13 % .
but there is a third possibility : global demand for america ’s reserve assets can subside . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambitions , albeit the idea has never gained much traction . alternatively , china could end up being the new supplier of reserve assets to the us . in this scenario , the fed would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions . that link might be a direct one when the renminbi acquires a reserve-currency country ; or there is an indirect case for it if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes the favored asset of reserve managers , because the renminbi is now the sdr currency basket .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including cutting the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . with america ’s economy already operating near full capacity ( with unemployment at less than 5 % ) , higher imports , and a stronger american dollar will be needed to meet that demand . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit the most . add to that the plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and to boost military spending , and it seems plausible that america will face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and massive short-term increases in demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which the american economy remains a preeminent export market .
princeton – over the past century , the economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and the market . or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform the socially necessary functions , like fighting wars or sustaining full employment ? the same question dividing american politics in the run-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections is the same one . does market control , in the sense that it sets the limits of governments ’ capacity to borrow ? this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis .
indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own ; that brexit would hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons . that means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy . british negotiators would then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by trying to steer the process as painful as possible for the rest of the eu . the second doom loop apply to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating europeans on their own game by reviving its automobile industry , or by forcing its own wine to a rival for french and italian manufacturers .
when deleveraging in the household sector is full , domestic expenditures can rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not return to zero . otherwise , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself when the stimulus came out . indeed , fiscal stimulus in backloading on deficit-reduction efforts might help tide the economy over while the structural adjustment and widening competitiveness of the tradable sector goes forward . but , by itself , stimulus is not the answer . the excessive domestic demand underpinning this evolution is now gone .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran ’s sub-lines not only mr. putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policy . for president putin , it makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his help in the form of america ’s influence on the successor iraqi regime concerning the repayment of russia ’s russian debts . so america ’s goal of regime change in baghdad no longer looks bleaker , if it can not be lost publicly . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly get worse before it finds itself from a narrow end to russian interests , while the consequent mess will be a problem for america and its traditional allies rather than for russia . that contrast also reflects a key difference between iran , the historic nation , and the artificial creation that is iraq .
regardless of how much milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among serbs . indeed , throughout the decade since yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its kurdish minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then an opposition participated . president kostunica ’s refusal so far to debate putting internationally indicted war criminals on trial is no hopeful omen here . most kosovars will find talks with serbia on improved relations unless serbia passes some sort of “ “ de-nazification ” process . kosovo ’s skepticism toward serbia ’s democratic credentials derives mainly from knowing that conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on a single man .
but there was never any conclusive proof that megrahi participated in the lockerbie bombing . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace from western leaders ( and a flood of investment ) , relations remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding . in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turned over to megrahi , like the other suspicious , lamin fhima , who was later acquitted – in the face of a scottish tribunal at camp david in holland . in fact , most experts still seem to believe that they were convicted of using fraudulent proof and that the cia bribed witnesses in advance . in the end , libya formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay over $ 2 billion to victims of ’ families , and abandoning its weapons of mass destruction program .
without them , the continent tends to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos . through 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion of working-age citizens , more than either india or china . with the right educational , skills , and employment opportunities , this vast labor force could deliver rapid , sustainable economic growth across the region . that experience has motivated him to establish his dangote academy , a hub for talent development that aims to help fill the industrial-skill gap in nigeria and beyond . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and boost prosperity .
for many reasons , violence against women in afghanistan persists . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women ’s inferiority . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cuts her nose and ears when fleeing . second , there is a powerful political motivation to deprive women of their rights . as a result , women are deprived of their fundamental rights and freedoms .
during greece ’s period of accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 , and remained above that level until 2007 . both inflation and a fiscal deficit fell quickly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government introduced an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms . but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was designed to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . at first , events played out as planned .
in january 2017 , hurtigruten allied itself with the clean arctic alliance to launch the arctic commitment . the danish shipowners ’ associations and the arctic expeditions cruise operator hurtigruten are just two players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . momentum toward the hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . the european parliament , for its part , has already broadly supported such movements . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulations to keep the level playing field .
indeed , it is among the most charismatic and charming leaders whom i met ; the other two – former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – also appear to be an african or an anemic one . he has done one great deal : resolving the cuban missile crisis . in africa , there has been no great figure since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who brought together courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . in return , john f. kennedy represented little of both .
but rebuilding cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a genuine possibility . some steps , including the elimination of america ’s trade embargo , are prohibited by helms-burton act , adopted by the american people ’s congress in 1996 . cuba has been one of the imf ’s 40 original members , and it has been accounting for some time . sanibel , the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states , has been a real possibility . cuba had been one of the imf ’s 40 original members .
and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , among america ’s presidents , have not been intellectuals . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians became discredited , or the parties are deadlocked . it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure that government officials ’ success is achieved . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make terrible policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal competence . moreover , they have the credibility that derives from a lack of desire to be reelected , either because their term in office has been reduced in advance , or because they are known to prefer a silent academic life .
following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated the coastlines from 11 to 11 countries , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , three half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages , 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework convention on action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan to reduce disaster risk . today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urbanization – vital to accommodate the expanding global population – set to reach nine billion by 2050 without adequate regard for disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that there is no such thing as a natural disaster ; there is only the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . in that sense , climate-change projections should challenge policymakers and business leaders to calibrate their perceptions of risk and disaster risk . in the absence of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades .
though that event did n’t live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) by 2020 , it instead offered a platform to a new generation of climate and nature advocates . fortunately , this may be starting to change . two years ago , nature-based researchers and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions for the effort to combat climate change . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . yet nature-based solutions have yet to gain relatively little attention and even less funding .
moreover , it will have to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , make it clear that iran does not spearheading the shia liberation movement . to ensure that iran continues to pursue international engagement , thereby protecting the nuclear deal that trump does not want to defuse , rouhani ’s government will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . just a few weeks ago , the us administration was forced to admit that rouhani was fulfilling its participation in the nuclear deal . indeed , iranians ’ display of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain nonexistent . but trump will not make making it easy for rouhani .
the hope that turkey finally seems to shedding its authoritarian vestiges , becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters . but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of the hundreds of innocent individuals locked out of a bogus pretenses . ludicrous cases will ultimately crumble under the weight of its collective absurdity . the mainstream independent media do n’t even report the inconsistencies for fear of being provoking a government or an gülen network . these cases will end up collapsing under the weight of their collective absurdity .
in short , both the western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions turned toward russia . more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . likewise , at july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would , it was claimed , “ perpetuates the short-term balance of payment pressures , provide peer support , and further boost financial stability . ” but russia is unlikely to draw upon that emergency credit lines in its current crisis . more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia .
from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls by labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep us economic performance well below its capacity ; over time , it would consume more at potential output as well . the economic impact of america ’s politics , while important , will become less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses , rather than fuel greater activism . at the same time , continuing congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainties , confessing debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . in other countries , the causal direction will run primarily from economics and politics . they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink the ability of production facilities to lower-wage countries .
where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as are germany ’s christian social democrats , despite their being part of the ruling grand coalition . to varying degrees , this divide is the paralyzing of socialist parties throughout europe . paris – the riots that have rampaged across greece may have many causes ; but one seldom mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left to czechoslovakia papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than strange . in the countries holding power , like spain , they are now extremely unpopular .
they are more tolerant of human frailties and have more refined appreciation in the art of seduction . whatever happened between the former managing director of the international monetary fund and its accusers , being arrested and paraded through press accounts as a criminal suspect was invoked in france . the response to the 9/11 attacks and dominique strauss-kahn at the recent meeting with an african chambermaid in the new york hotel had very little in common , except to one another : once again , cultural conflict was invoked in misleading ways . the french , it was assumed , fall from a latin culture with a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . one allegation , made by a familiar french publicist , that the arrest was characteristic of america ’s puritanism .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
the success of their defiance shows the power of the very notion that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands . still , captured in the sights of a gun barrel , no single person – not even the courageous men and women who camped in their hundreds of thousands , in the dustle before ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s parliament – knew with certainty that these changes had wrenched ukrainians from their grip on fear and apathy . self-confidence among governed and prudence among the rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and the true liberty , and they can never be diverted to our homeland again . they have the reason to be proud ; they have the right to make their lives .
while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir have not been averse to lecturing , they have lacked the strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages americans . his tireless disquisitions on israel ’s ’s strategic landscape , security demands , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk about rerestarting negotiations , which are instantly dismissed by palestinians who , fearing displays of weakness . furthermore , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessments on the middle east do not line the obama administration ’s position , in thrall to his collapsing romania with the moderate islamists , as well as his handwringing supporters among jewish americans . israeli prime ministers are supposedly to come in two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers who speak a good game before acquiescing to america ’s latest or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid .
followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a powerful need for change , often in the context of personal , organizational , or social crises . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus shifted from winning the war to constructing the welfare state , churchill voted overwhelmingly from office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; change on followers of ’ need occurred . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but a year later his vision , trusts , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons anxiety after france ’s fall and dunkirk ’s evacuation .
the government has also secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , ireland would be allowed to retain permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . but , again , the picture is far from clear-cut . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority from 62 % to 23 % , with about 15 % of the electorate undecided . this negotiating success gave the government considerable breathing space , in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign .
eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose that the eu give high representative for foreign affairs and security , while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . finally , the eu must do more to develop its financial toolkit and promote international use of europe . the solution is not to meddle in competition rules ; rather , it is giving those in charge of security some say in the decision-making process . to this end , in a upcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy professionals and other economists , we propose that the eu give high representative for foreign affairs and security , while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles .
whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it did not punish israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . for israel , its democracy has always had a strategic asset , because a democratic israel has been a natural fit within its western alliance . more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however , the frail becomes its link with its strategic rearguard action in the west . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as alien agents . a newly-passed bill obviously aimed against israeli arabs at the knesset ( parliament ) , would allow mks to be sacked for disloyalty to the state .
mr. romano prodi , the president of the eu commission , and former italy 's prime minister , responded to president bush 's most recent statement by saying that " if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth and not only the american industry . " but the question is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly , for the sake of promoting their citizens ' interests , and for what extent should they be concerned the welfare of people everywhere ? in kosovo , curtailing intervention to air bombardment has made this strategy a whole success : nato forces have suffered not as a single casualty in the fight , but an estimated 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians , were slaughtered . this approach to the duty of a national leader said bluntly and sincere , powers the us should consider a fundamental ethical issue .
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring ceasefire – and the accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk substantial political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas supplies to ukraine . on both of these fronts , the eu has created the impression that europe is repeatedly out-maneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . increasingly , ukraine seems to be locked in a “ frozen conflict ” ” ” ” – a foreign-policy specialty consumed by russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . moreover , delayed implementation of key elements in the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine demonstrates the stark evidence that , at the very moment , russia dictates eu-ukraine engagement .
thanks to america ’s ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache of every developing country finance minister nowadays try to keep its or her country ’s currency from going too quickly against the dollar . when was the latest era , that is happening ? when was the latest era that has occurred ? with the weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , nearly all laments america ’s ’s spendthrift ways . but were that ever taking place against anybody else ? because of america ’s ’s ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache , from mexico to russia to south korea , are all struggles over capital inflows from investors looking for an exit as the dollar crumbles .
but researchers have long predicted that such increases would boost not only the average amount of temperatures , but also weather variability , and particularly the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . it ’s ironic , to be sure , that an event so associated with climate change would have occurred in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers as well , and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry that drives global warming . but the rains that have inundated texas for the better part of just one week and a hurricane that haunts south florida as well are raising deep questions about the united states ’ ’ economic system and politics . of course , no specific climate event can match the increase in greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere directly . new york – hurricane harvey – left into its wake upended lives and vast property damage , estimated at $ 150-180 billion .
europe has been divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and the west . by linking europe means of production together , first through the european coal and steel community and later through the common market and the eu , the eu hoped to tie europe together so deeply that war between them would no longer be an option . rather than banding together , each new challenge divided the eu into an ever-smaller one . pro-europeans need to get involved with the sources of discontent and rethink the forms used to express the european ideal . rather than banding together , each new challenge has divided the eu into an ever-smaller one .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit , after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s sit-tight military history , that is real progress . government and commercial activity practically ground to curb this spring as democracy activists , in the alliance with politicians and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s rallies to thwart the proposed bill . unfortunately , that may not necessarily be the president ’s undoing . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to resume office beyond two terms have met with a solid wall of opposition .
defenders of each of these theory are , in parfit , a vivid phrase , advancing the same mountain on different sides . if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than what we have ever thought . he views three leading theories of what we ought to do , one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism , argues that kantian and social-contract theories need to be revised in order to be defensible . if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement between apparently conflicting moral theories than that we all think . parfit is responding to this line of argument that he is leading him to draw a claim that is perhaps even bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics .
but that does n’t mean that the company is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its different stakeholders apparently can spend any part of the income they earn from the company and other sources in altruistic terms . instead of csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding out have spilled coffee , both of the subject of lawsuits at any time in recent years . one can also argue for psr on the grounds that asking for csr becomes a way of “ passing a buck ” ; evading personal responsibility for doing good . this is the flip side of blaming psr on a company ’s grounds that demands csr becomes a way of “ passing a buck ” buck , evading personal responsibility into doing good .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be seen as the region ’s most important visit by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s covert mission to beijing in july 1971 . the revival of us-chinese relations had shifted the global balance of power away from the cold war ’s height and prepared the way that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginnings of a distinct new phase in that epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to acquiesce in china ’s push for regional hegemony . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of the era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the start of a distinct new phase in that epoch . kissinger ’s mission triggered the start of a diplomatic revolution in march .
thus , china ’s role is shifting : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it now becomes a major customer for western products . that represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided that they are positioned to compete for the relevant components of evolving supply chains . rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift to higher-value activities . at the same time , technology and knowledge will remain important , but china needs to start generating new technology besides absorbing western instruments and skills . chinese demand is set to grow not only as incomes rise ; its composition is shifting to increasingly sophisticated goods and services .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes post-imperial inferiority complex , symptoms of which , whether brexit or putinism , are hampering europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental changes , because they typically wound up paying extra . historically , french diplomacy excels at spectacular bargains . but his recent actions seem to reproducing them . macron ’s ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to battle these symptoms .
at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off financial collapse in the european union , the popular support that drove european integration out of the past six decades is waning . this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can deal with economic issues with national policies alone . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policies to function . dublin , europe ’s need , and the europeans ’ aspirations are at odds . after nearly 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity has been so important , indulging nationalist sentiment without regard for its potential implications .
looking ahead , national elections have been held in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia over the past six months . a full assessment of the iraq war , and its implications for the middle east , will take a decade or more . the skeptics have a point , but they go a long way . for one thing , the january 2005 elections have been a positive one for the region . for another , it is still too soon to judge the merits of the region ’s argument .
it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and the total dependency on a state that embodies some kind of unshakable destiny . and they brought the lesson to moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and exceedingly difficult . as thomas mann once wrote : “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” in 1989 , the peoples of the region brought with them in its “ return ” to europe ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . freedom change the frame and substance of choice .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda at the united nations in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for that over the years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . i am confident that it will have a powerful impact on business investment , raise productivity , and generate overall economic growth . the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly large . now , with a republican majority in both the senate and a republican president in the white house , these schemes can create the basis for legislative action .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there or the berlin wall . instead , palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of opposition leaders in germany , did not see the cold war as primarily a conflict between liberty and tyranny . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there or the berlin wall . palme 's main speech referred to " détente " as " trust , and " friendship " but never " freedom . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of opposition leaders in germany , did not see the cold war as primarily a conflict between liberty and tyranny . this alliance between the two sides led to severe distortions in fundamental western values .
vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom , too . these aspirations were often voiced in the un , founded in 1945 . a different sort of revolution occurred across europe among japan ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to be ruled once more by western powers that had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of a 1945 consensus . for a short time , many prominent people , albert einstein for one , believed that only a world government would be capable of ensuring global peace would solve all .
guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and let banks take on even more leveraging , not surprisingly , that the administration veered from one policy to another – every strategy promoted with absolute conviction , until just minutes after it was left for another . but the financial crisis is only one of several crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem has been made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . those who would spend make no money at all ; and those with the money are spending n’t . moreover , what little action has been taken has been aimed at overhauling the financial system . even if confidence did indeed matter , the us economy has sunk back .
amid the foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods pose an especially potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the coming decades . all the while , officials confront a simple choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital flows , or be ready to invest a lot of resources in self-insurance by accumulating huge foreign reserves . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have merely themselves to be blamed for having recklessly rushed into this wild ride . the deeper issue lies with the overt financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990s .
even a relatively small amount of material like cobalt-60 ’s , used in radiotherapy , might have caused serious harm when combined with conventional explosive powers in the so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise intentionally used to expose the public to dangerous levels of radiation ) . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect against nuclear material when it is used or stored , not only when it is transported internationally , as is now case in point . at the who ’s summit on climate change should be ratified by improvements to a crucial nuclear safety facility , theconvention on the physical protection of nuclear material . doing so would be the first such event that holds open for all countries . foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework when they convene at the international conference on nuclear security : improved global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 .
the match played out on march 30 with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political side , however , both countries were not evenly matched . this time , the initiative came out of singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to observe the two countries play a seminal final in the cricket world cup . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the play ; but , ultimately , the process rather than the protocol will determine how the bilateral relationship is moving forward . of the troika that currently governs pakistan , the president , prime minister , and chief of the army ’s staff , it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority .
under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive gains from indigenous agriculture . it is a dangerous folly , however , to extend this policy to viruses . indonesia argues that a nation ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected through the same mechanisms that the un food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . if the notion of “ viral sovereignty ” were applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would n’t have central repositories for thousands of hiv varieties today ; these allow researchers and vaccines against all the other strains of the virus that causes aids . that useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes allow transnational corporations and wealthy governments to obtain outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture .
since 2001 , unit labor costs have been rising more rapidly than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , its lowest level in the oecd . this calls for increased investment in innovation as well as in human capital . the new government ’s greatest challenge will be to enact the reforms allowing italy ’s economic performance to catch up with those of its neighbor after years of bad policies and neglect . over the past decade , italy ’s share of global exports has dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
conflicting motivations are probably more important . but technical ability is not the only – or even the primary – issue . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably worry that the wonk in question may be in thrall to particular ideologies or methodology ; that counsel can be politically motivated ; or that counsel tailor their counsel to their own career concerns ( how to get that plum ’s work back to wall street after leaving the government ) . there is some misconception at work here . the conflicting motivations are perhaps more important .
so germany looks destined to be stuck in the doldrums for some time now . disillusionment with politics is growing , and may even be bringing to the right-wing populists whom democratic germany has so far been spared . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . whichever party combination appears to be peaking – and helmut kohl ’s coalition must still be viewed as the narrow favorite -- it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on the unlikely support of its political opponents . the price for inaction is substantial .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce and the rising importance of the euro , notwithstanding its role as a reserve currency , mean that the eu , just like the us , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . europeans occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . to be sure , europe occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . but there is little sign that america is acting decisively . europe ’s leadership on climate change and its development aid could , if well handled , be the cornerstone of a new us moral authority .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . as l.p. hartley wrote in a go-between : “ “ “ “ the past is a foreign country ” : they do things differently there . ” madrid , having secured a fifth term ( and its fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on track to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader .
in september 2008 , for example , former president roh herzog published a polemic entitled “ the ecj ! ” in september 2008 , for example , former polish president andrzej herzog published a polemic entitled “ the ecj ! ” such claims were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , as well as in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum . he accused luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member states , and pushed the constitutional court invalidates several controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where , for some time , there had been substantial disquiet about “ judicial activism ” and what some saw as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of the ecj and other eu institutions . herzog ’s rulings resonated successful during the 2005 referenda on the left in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum did .
on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . here , several proposals have already put forward , including a universal basic income ( ubi ) , currently piloted in finland and some subnational jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and a variety of different types of portable social security metrics that pool workers ’ advantage . furthermore , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be phased out , with benefits like retirement and health-care has made more portable and tailored to evolving occupational arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy . this means shifting the focus from backward-looking labor-market policies that efforts to protect workers in existing jobs , to future-oriented measures such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . at the same time , countries need to facilitate workers ’ skills through labor-market reforms and social-safety nets .
as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ the us is not killing them more quickly than it is forming ” ” ” ” ” . the us is also failing when it uses us military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , a good bargain for sympathy and understanding was needed worldwide for america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s military response against the taliban . the manner in which the us uses military power also influences rumsfeld ’s ratio . according to caslen , “ the us in the pentagon is behind our adversaries in the use of communication , either to recruit or train ” ” ” .
our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher energy-related rates , and a cleaner environment . but this is not what has been happening so far . after all , air , soil , and water pollution have been on the rise , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year to rise . but this is not what has happened so far . the key to a clean future is clean technology , whose costs were falling steadily and will continue to do so .
at the same time , the private sector brings innovations to the classroom . for example , some providers develop teaching models in which students can track teacher-centric videos online learning in order to make precious teacher-student face time for time can focus on interacting , rather than lecturing . similarly , skilled teachers may now deliver interactive e-learning lessons to many classrooms at once , even as hundreds of thousands of miles are accessible . as a result , students in places where schools have yet to build , or too few qualified teachers have been equally available , may still gain an education . after all , some providers are developing teaching models in which students are unable to track teacher-centric videos online outside the class in order to meet time with untrained populations .
china ’s leaders , in no mood to play the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their positions and reinforce their hand in negotiations . when the us congress follows through on a climate-change debate , for example , and some legislators are calling for a cap-and-trade system , others will require to know why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments while the chinese refuse . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of their foreign competitors . the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national ” “ champions , ” largely ” to ensure that china ’s gains from the power of markets , while the leadership controls as much of the spoils system . the obama administration has already moved against chinese tires and steel pipelines , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade .
but continuing to do so much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excess credit growth , and credit bubbles . so , although central banks are reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , just as they have already done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation might stay low permanently . this central-bank patience risks de-anchoring downward inflation expectations downward . but , confronted with the possibility that today ’s low inflation might stem from permanent supply shocks , it is also reluctant to ease itself further . otherwise , they would have to sustain themselves for far longer on their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach that most central banks ( with potentially exceptions to japan ) are uncomfortable .
a global pact would have to be an urgent need , rather than an attractive option . to strike an agreement of similar scale and influence , world leaders – particularly in the us and china – would need to be under similarly high pressure . what would persuade chinese leaders that they must work quickly to reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose just as well . one such catalyst might well be the financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system .
at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by concerns about the future , the french need a reassuring father , or a mother figure , not a jittery and a manipulative leaderready to compromise their ethics , and france a proud tradition that makes every citizen entitled to equal treatment under the rule of law . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions of the short term , may dishonor first and then defeat . winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the delaying tactics of britain and france on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . not so much sarkozy ’s performance as the president of the majority of the frenchmen reject ; it is his own essence . for , though a french majority today might be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that he will be re-elected in 2012 .
as it stands , such countries receive just one fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee needed annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the first few years of displacement . millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain as they might return home . at the same time , the international community must encourage the inclusion of refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , it is clear that this objective is achievable .
indeed , across the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite rapturous greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination , in fact , are gradually disappearing . yet , in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline of the past few decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly those in the ranks of the lower castes ) are now politically assertive .
production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . there is a vast gap between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages – in germany and the heavily indebted southern european countries . but the unemployment rate continues to rise across the heavily indebted southern countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . when the crisis started , production costs in greece were around 30 % higher than in germany , so greece exported very little , importing too much . the key reason for the lag is not simply low demand or large-scale debts .
putin ’s gambit is akin to that of the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in the divisions of europe that took place enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century . and yet , with ukrainians working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us is facing a new threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” that has enslaved a part of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve . over the next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely choose a new president , the best rebuke to russian propaganda about our supposed failure to uphold democracy . indeed , russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call with us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis of power , actually amounts to a peace offensive offensive that is a peaceful offensive . most important , despite the russian army ’s brawl against the us , trump is embarking on election campaigns .
but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel might take from the past . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to rocket attacks . the iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv and one came close to hit dimona . and , while israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defense , which now surround dimona , may be superior to the patriot system that failed in march 1991 , syria has more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present at a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner headed by a reactor to kill 108 dead .
until recently , investors had hoped that the american federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a us recession on the grounds that it was doing it on its earlier occasions . now , they need to recognize that the fed might no longer . with the oil , the fed , and the other commodities firm , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat more quickly , the fed also has to worry about falling inflation . moreover , the us financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the economy is being constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . if interest rates were to drop beyond a tipping point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure , and long-term bond yields would indeed be heading toward yield .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it at the issue of the newsweek , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping women ’s opportunities to grow a woman . educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . but on the planet ’s worst , forcing horrified ways , uneducated women are more socially acceptable than face the fact that this means choosing to drag down their incomes for all . ” studies show that helping women access to trade , and growing businesses helps to create jobs and boost their incomes . and , when she marry and has children of her own , the benefits will accrue to two educated , employed parents , implying twice as much literate conversation in home , double down on contacts , and twice the encouragement to succeed .
by the 1990 ’s , british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that had been more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease within its relationship with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to america ’s , or are other english-speaking former colonies . indeed , britain ’s last time had a strong european voice more than two decades ago . the us was the “ other woman , ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make effective contributions to european reform .
but the battle between pro- and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europeans can generate sustained economic growth . that question , rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , should be the eu ’s chief item on deliberation for the parties to confront those who would tear up the european project . but it will also determine whether europeans can remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain their social model , and safeguard his framework of privileges and liberties in a world that does not await europeans to resolve their differences . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies that it has pursued . broad-based recovery – in investments , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project .
everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though its emergency was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would have triggered a global financial panic ? then there is the concept of systemic risk , not just in the eye of the beholder , but perhaps impossible to foresee . the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was viewed as systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought the europeans parochial ; they thought that the u.s. disproportionately influenced its 2000 kilometer with mexico .
but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . a crucial proposal by the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then to force member countries to adopt “ remedial ” action ” should the eu find large divergences . the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s southern members must lower their wage costs in order to claw back the competitiveness that they had lost since adopting the common currency . competitiveness , typically measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept . concern about such divergences has also reached the task force headed by european president herman van rompuy , which is meant to devise fundamental reform rules governing intra-eu economic policy coordination .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans took to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , just as more people are waking up to the threat that american president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . resisting and sometimes leave , the opposition could adopt three tactics . one approach is simply to wait , hoping that trump turns to a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump might have been impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment to the american constitution , where enough members of his own administration consider him incapable of carrying out the duties of the presidency .
in the short run , americans would need to make modest economic sacrifices . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in the country ’s gasoline taxes , which consumes more of it than anything else : the us . no single measure would do more to make the world a less dangerous place than a substantial reduction in its oil consumption . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it with soaring gasoline prices , alternative sources of energy like ethanol , and alternative forms of transportation such as nonelectrifying automobiles would become commercially viable . in the short run , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices .
consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups , but its real businesses are the old standby direct-mail marketing and coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for email marketing what other internet companies do for the yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use modern technology to reach their customers . but groupon is spreading that model to a much broader audience – not so much to its users ’ coupon , but instead to its merchants offering coupons . the model obviously makes a lot of customers to do : groupon now possesses more than 50 million subscribers , and seeks 150 million by year-end date . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups ; but its real businesses are the old standby direct-mail marketing and coupons .
in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging-market economies , combined with investors ’ rising preference for safe assets , increased global saving supplies , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . conspicuously absent from the discussion is the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline in saving and investment fundamentals . how to stem the downward spiral in equilibrium rates has thus become the subject of a lively debate . the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects the fall in equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , driven by changes in saving and investment fundamentals . this perceived slump in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing the real rate below its equilibrium level , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates .
they find that american districts , where the economy was hard hit by chinese exports , reacted by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians , either from the left or the right . as enrico moretti of california ’s university at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of jobs , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of america ’s total metropolises , but they are four times less numerous in worse-case regions . economic shocks typically make it more difficult to aggravate this policy divide . in striking new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have explored the political consequences . those who do make a living and working in traditional manufacturing hotspots caught in the tumult of globalization have multiple losers : jobs , housing wealth , and the fortunes of their children and kin are all highly correlated .
the un commission of inquiry has gathered intelligence identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it has investigated , but it has done little to make that public . the names of those in charge should be made public , either by the commission or by another body created by the un human rights council . those to be named should be notified , and given the chance to refute the findings . the human rights council could act on its own , without regard for , say , the world . if they fail to respond , or unless their responses are persuasive , their biases and crimes attributed to the un human rights council should be brought to justice .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the extreme right roshes in opinion polls . but , if right leaders at the helm , a january 7 attack could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . already , le pen seems to be reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after being refused to rally the day after the attacks . these ingredients could constitute a prescription for disaster , for the worse .
on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and a shift from output toward the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . here , the innovations and conditions underpinning it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . meanwhile , the non-tradable side should grow in an inclusive manner . if policymakers choose a “ rules-based model ” based on a vast state-dominated sector sheltered from internal and external competition , innovation goals are unlikely to materialize , adversely affecting future growth .
consider those cases when elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group , which then float roughshod over minorities , an outcome that has been seen all too frequently in the balkans , for example . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , gives putin another term in office . then there are those occasions when a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . of course , elections by themselves do n’t make democracy a reality .
beyond timing , they have little in common . in greece ’s case , the negotiations were propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with its dangerous revisionist ambitions or act as a conduit for europe-bound german migrants . what they do share is that their “ success ” was fueled largely by the sense that powerful external threats had made the alternative , no deal at all , much worse . but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union presented the type of threat that inspired american president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency to comparison .
if we ban drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes in order to deter , detect , and punish those who deceive are . when drugs are banned but some athletes use them anyway , the playing field tilts in favor of the cheater . for the athletes who seek to compete clean , the threat that they might beat with the competitor that is not faster , stronger , or committed ; but who takes the drug to get the fringe , is profoundly personal . what if that advantage does come from the performance of the enhancing of the drug ? integrity seems to be the old-fashioned view , but it is at the heart of who we are , and how we live .
external powers , meanwhile , compounded the problem . for starters , crises countries ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward sustainable levels . south korea ’s admission to the oecd demanded that its government eliminate capital controls , exposing the economy to short-run “ hot money ” inflows . this sketch of a crisis highlights how much has changed over the subsequent 20 years . more generally , countries felt pressure from the imf and america ’s treasury to remove capital-flow constraints , which magnified risk conditions , and made the maintenance of pegged exchange rates ever more problematic .
the renminbi is coming , but not before the end of 2020 , by which time shanghai becomes a first-rate international financial center . and , even after that , the renminbi will probably share the international scene with the us dollar , rather than just replacing it . what ’s not to be replaced by the euro or the yen , given that the two europeans and japan have serious economic problems of their own . beyond that , the us dollar does n’t come anywhere in the world . the renminbi does come , but not before the end of 2020 , by which time shanghai becomes a world-class international financial center .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
in that effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” ( act ) , a grass-roots get-out-the-vote operation , and $ 2.5 million to o’moveon.org voter fund , “ a popular internet advocacy group that i airing advertisements to highlight us administration misdeeds . ” i and many other affluent americans are contributing millions of dollars to pastureland engaged in the 2004 us presidential election . if americans reject the president ’s policies at the polls , america may write off bush ’s doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . as a result , i am deeply troubled by the direction in which the bush administration takes the united states and the world . i and many other affluent americans are contributing millions of dollars to pastureland engaged in the 2004 us presidential election .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation , the kremlin has stepped in to mediate debates among the taliban and the representatives of other afghan groups . but russia is likely to disappoint its fans in the middle east , not least as a broker of a regional peace . there is little reason to think that a nuclear-armed russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward a long-term peace-building , will be able to mediate , much less to underwrite , durable peace agreements . so far , the middle east , a war-torn region stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors , has the time and again depleted the commitment of foreign actors . while russia has failed to overthrow the american people , some 20 % of respondents cited the country as its “ best friend outside the middle east and north africa . ”
for many older workers , that choice is n’t whether to work , but how much . but experience shows that a choice for retiring or working fewer hours affects the compensation that members of this group receive . moreover , owing to the complex rules that govern raising welfare benefits , an older worker who pays that payroll taxes are likely to receive no extra benefits . worker payroll taxes amount to 6.65 % ( on average ) of workers , and are likely to pay for the same income tax . and this amount partly reflects the fact that employed people who collect social security and medicare face the payroll tax , which finances them .
up to now , the eu has centered on how to limit visa rights , which the oblast ’s citizens now use to redomicile poland and the baltic states , so as to visit the rest of russia . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders , and with the oblast , in designing a viable future for the enclave . the eu ’s enlargement will provide enormous impetus to the whole of europe , particularly the baltic region , from which so many new eu members will arrive . but if this fails , the contrasts between kaliningrad – and the rest of the region – will be shamefully striking . the eu will continue to foster trade and economic growth , and these might provide genuine incentives to turn kaliningrad into a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , not merely a worried source of illegal russian migrants to the eu through a supposedly lax visa regime .
lev artsimovich , the tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready when a society needs it . ” but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the probability they are supposed to make , the world should be able to step up the investments that are made in the tech sector . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely curtailed , creating a serious problem for the developed and developing world alike . our futures may well depend on it . one hopes that it is right .
would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program , with fewer financing , for any country outside the eurozone ? the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director who made a decision to support greece so badly hailed from the eurozone , and hardly disguising his ambition to run for the french presidency , that is , before his arrest in new york on rape charges . likewise , europeans , too , dominate the fund ’s lead . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s management directorship and yet christine lagarde , the french finance minister , was named for the success of her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn following her resignation . it is a discomforting conflict of interest that borrowers dominate an international institution that lends them vast sums .
so the three problems facing europe in the second half of this year are intimately interconnected . the eu will require the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . just now , the signs are far from promising this time around . we must hope to be surprised by this . there are few new faces , or ideas at the horizon , for that matter .
overcoming such structural barriers requires a comprehensive strategy for support against women ’s candidates . such obstacles include electoral systems itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post single-member districts ) ; a lack of access to financing ; a weaker professional network ; and an outside responsibility that makes it harder to take on punishing and unforeseeable working conditions . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected nature that women confront in obtaining an elected office and conducting a successful campaign . in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for a majority of aspirants without sufficient reach , regardless of gender . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interrelated barriers facing women in gaining nomination for the elected office and conducting successful campaigns .
given imperfect information about future needs , labor markets are not confined to any single country . that reflects both the skills of physical investment and the information gap : investing in on-the-job training in a rapidly evolving industrial architecture is like shooting up on a moving target . powerful technology and global market forces are not confined to any single country . the same issues arise everywhere , with discrepancies reflected in market flexibility and socio-political choices . these adverse trends date back to the late 1980 ’s .
the sharp divide between producers and consumers of knowledge began only about 300 years ago , when the book printers secured royal protection for their business in the face of piracy at a rapidly growing literary market . at the same time , however , us policy was preceded before – indeed , for much of human history . wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralds the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the distribution and broadcasts of vast amounts of different types of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , eliminating the final frontier separating the transmitter and the receiver of information . the legacy of their success , the copyright law , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of thought .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s ’s best hotels , as well as a welcome boost for high-end restaurant business . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and elsewhere were making glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds plausible when claimed by an irish “ accent ” ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and dubai dealerships , all vital services that make up a vibrant financial center . french president françois hollande was elected on the assertion that high-minded financial center lobbyists filled london ’s best hotels and provide a welcome boost to high-end restaurant business . some of these presentations had raised a cook smile , or a pair of others .
iran ’s mounting aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already started strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . but those in iran who claim that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply false . iran was understandably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress in launching instex , a bartering mechanism intended to allow some trade between europe and iran , despite american sanctions . yet those in the middle east are simply wrong . that line of reasoning has driven iran ’s leaders to placate its disruptive activities in a succession of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( through which it also observed is europe ’s weak link ) .
furthermore , american accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and a byzantine contract valuation . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and the so-called “ chinese wall ” to keep brokerage , and investment-banking activities separate . finally , managers , rather than distant shareholders , tend to be co-opted . so , too , are executives fast to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” ledgers that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk , and portrays the smooth track record of earnings growth . after all , managers , rather than distant shareholders , tend to be co-opted .
this implies potentially enormous economic , ecological , and social losses to both the advanced and the developing world . in asia , too , countries throughout the developing world simply do not export their plentiful , economically important genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , pledged the international regime on access and benefits sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . but brokering the arabs regime has proved elusive and , in the absence of an international treaty , diminishing access and thus falling benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . this would allow researchers and companies to access the developing world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s genetic treasure trove in return for sharing in gains from the products they then developing .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the space for market-based economic management . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them more sustainable , a effort that will shake them just as occasional bouts of global financial-market instability take hold , but not to derail them . a third group – led by europe – will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment within some countries , and complicates regional policy choices . the second group , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to mature structurally . the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than they have in recent years , though they will still accrue disproportionately to those who are already better off .
unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve our mobile telephony , but also to accelerate internet development of things and the digitalization of the entire economy . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . and because european firms are so heavily integrated with the american economy , europe ’s economy has struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . once again , european companies have borne the costs of these measures . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not just to improve its mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and the digitalization of the entire economy .
so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? we know even less about the factors responsible for another 44 % of the performance gap . blinder and watson suggest that five factors that have caused oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – perhaps together to explain the 56 % growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors have been influenced by american president donald trump ’s policies . in assessing clinton ’s ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers are making a lot of finding by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies do not seem to be more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , so can not explain the performance differential .
this was proposed at the end of the bush administration to forge linkages with some asean members , singapore , vietnam and brunei , as well as with others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , this may become too difficult politically , and a asean sub-grouping may prove to be a more realistic option . in this era of crisis and unemployment , the american public may be freer trade . another option is for the us to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this might be constructed to include the other open southeast asian economies , malaysia and thailand , with the eventual goal of being an asean treaty , which would represent an impressive success if realized by the end of 2011 , when it turns obama ’s turn to play host to all leaders .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , far less at preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . in the united states , for a fifth-year period , the us congress went over a full-fledged budget , much less address the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds . rather than take advantage of the opportunities afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slid into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . this is particularly true of these policymaking actors that possess far better tools for addressing advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . as a result , they run the risk of aggravating potential challenges .
like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who make bad decisions should face clawbacks on financial assets , in the form of lower retirement age . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector by leading the way , and by connecting politicians ’ pension ’ pension funds to their performance . meanwhile , just over 15 % of private-sector workers – people who are presumably dependent on government-funded educational or infrastructure – are receiving the type of fixed-benefit retirement benefit plan that will cushion ryan for retirement benefit , according to the pension rights center . a pension is a long-term state-commitment , and , ultimately , a taxpayer , to an individual politician . if policymakers are receiving pensions beginning in age 50 as ryan , retirement benefits could realistically be paid out over the next 40-plus years .
the pa prime minister , salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , the rules by decree , keep parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . this was true of zionism , the italian risorgimento , and , most recently , of catholics in northern ireland . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its own security forces , and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections are under constant relief . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces , and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another of these errors . seized by the cia in macedonia , he was taken to afghanistan , and has interrogated for five months before being released last august . but the cia has made mistakes already . for example , murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , has been held in guantánamo for four years , before being released last august . the head of the guantánamo mission force , reinadmiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his prisoners , saying , “ they are all terrorists ; all are enemy combatants . ”
a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , as well as a stronger role will give the european parliament and national parliaments a stronger role . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister even though it is formally denied that title , this is what all will call him , with a strong administrative infrastructure at the european commission and at the council . eu citizens will be endowed with legally binding fundamental rights , and the majority of decisions will become the common norm , at least not yet . a high price has had to pay for that agreement . the rotating presidency will be replaced with an elected president .
van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience ” shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some of the groups in society in the us is affected by it . cash is in decline in many countries , even though levels differ markedly from place to place . cash usage has plummeted by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now down by 10 % per year in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany . we have to hope that the government can respond to this question . cash is in decline in many countries , even though the rate markedly different from what it means .
because a “ haircut ” can be imposed on only whatever is left of a defaultable private-sector debt , the larger the imf ’s share , the deeper the haircut it needs to restore sustainability . for starters , assuming the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , the imf ’s borrowing would entail a substituting for its “ no defaultable ” its debt for a “ defaultable ” debt from private bondholders , because the fund uses ’s money primarily to service outstanding bonds . a second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for the same reasons , imf borrowing can run a burdensome legacy from a market-based perspective . as a result , a group of fortunate bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those becoming junior to imf debt , remaining highly exposed to probably restructuring .
as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with an n/gdp ratio hovering around 200 % , compared to around 80 % in the us . how has this happened and what should policymakers do about it ? first , china ’s currency reserves are relatively plentiful . the problem is that right now is structural . beijing is considering that : despite china ’s bloated foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses – and the interbank rate – is soaring .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs focusing on these kinds of health challenges , far more needs to be done . technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will prove ineffective unless they are tailored to meeting local people ’s true needs . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind a global norm . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do not stimulate sufficient systemic thinking . worldwide , public-health policy is shifting toward a more multidisciplinary measure of engineering , medicine , social and governance sciences , as well as the humanities .
and , though juppé remains well ahead in opinion polls until now , the french might reject his fortunate version of french national identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker one . i continue to believe that juppé will most likely emerge as france ’s next president . more telling , of course , will the party primary in november . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , he is widely believed that a victorious republican will be france ’s next president . in terms of age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise , rather than in conquest of power .
and , perhaps most important , what is never the optimal trade-offs to obtain eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively on a shared european future ? some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of the eu ’s framework program are meant to continue , and that end ? under the banner of oversimplifying , ” the “ how ” gravitates toward outsourcing toward most of the realization by eu agencies to appoint , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . that requires a smoothly working and much more efficiency-enhancing interface between eu agencies and the european commission , one that maintains overall control over them , as well as a rigorous revision of financial regulation for an entire operation and its oft-criticized red tape . and , perhaps most important , what is the optimal trade-offs to obtain eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively for a common european future ?
the american invasion of iraq , with its large body of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and make them inclined to join al qaeda-style holy war cells . despair and alienation have taken hold from the younger generation of arabs , who represent more than 50 % of the region ’s population . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war there will most likely be playing into al qaeda ’s hands , handing it a new lease on life . political repression and silencing arab public opinion should worry america and its arab allies , not reassure them , because it means that there is no way around the public to channel their interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the ruinous blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , already present themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq .
a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . by committing to buy more russian-made gas and , for a longer time , the eu would help funding russia through its military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close down . yet nord stream 2 would make those worried .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and those who should be acting as patients ’ watchdogs are happy to go along . pharmaceutical companies pay players throughout the us health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives . but there really is no puzzle , either .
disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which a majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . but while there are many reasons for blaming foreign powers for the region as the parlous state of affairs , blaming others , or even one another , nothing will be resolved . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems as well , including inefficient and inefficient governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , and young people are suffering the highest rates of youth unemployment in muslim-majority countries . this constitutes not only a tremendous waste of resources ; it is also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem .
nearly 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , almost 50 % of male vaccinators . since unicef began emphasizing women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . to be sure , ensuring that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle is vital to address the obstacles , be addressed , whether by physical safety , social constraints , or low pay , that they confront . let us not forget that the risks these women are taking to protect every child from an illness taking an enormous toll on global health . as a polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full eradication in our sights , we might be allowing polio to return .
in the us , roughly one-third of households in the developed world became impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” america has neither an effective regulatory framework for internet platforms nor lacks the political will to create one . in the us , roughly one-third of all us adults have become impervious to new thinking , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google ’s design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking ” instead .
american officials recently released a list of iraqis facing trial on past crimes . “ if not , ” the president had warned that “ the people who mistreat prisoners will be treated humanely as they are doing . ” president bush ’s remarks had been driven home by the importance of rigorous adherence to the geneva conventions , as well as the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in postwar iraq , and to whom they will conduct them . when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush declared , “ the people who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” america ’s planned war crimes tribunal covers the violations committed prior to the current conflict started .
when interpretability is important , for example , in many medical applications , you need a trained human in your decision-making loop . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read the code to analyze what happens or check if a hidden bias occurs . second , today ’s algorithms turn out to be extremely good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets , find objects in youtube videos , or detecting a loan card fraud , but are far less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit a normal pattern or simply when the data are scarce or some kind of “ noisy ” noisy . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what does or check if there is a hidden bias . to manage such cases , you need a skillful person , with his or her experience , intuitions , and social awareness .
president putin 's moves to cement an integrated power system are thus both logical and correct . a second important area of progress has been reform of russia 's federation : the establishment of federal districts and reform of the federation council . such changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws go unnoticed by some of its constituent parliamentarians can not function normally ; a federation in which the observance of laws depends on a whim of local administrators simply can not exist . the country also advanced down the road of fiscal federalism : channeling all value-added tax into the federal budget and regions ' income tax makes for a sensible system of distributing budget resources among the tiers of authority . as a result , russia today exists as realistic even if imperfect , federation .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , the hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a us security cabinet member , quickly voiced concerns about the us arms deal . but , given trump ’s inability to take a genuine stand on any one of the core areas of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and the status of jerusalem , the idea that he plays some well-thought-out long game over the israel-palestine conflict looks farfetched . within israel ’s right-wing , many worry that trump just try to appease israel with its rhetoric , viewing saudi arabia as america ’s mainstay of us interests in the region . it may be that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support may help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . for israel , this is more than real .
and vulnerabilities in the london housing market do not appear to spread elsewhere as well . strengthening the housing market in the us might well do wonders to reverse the disturbing regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . if this trend does hold , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk ’s economy . in fact , in the northwestern , residential real-estate prices show signs of accelerating upward . one thing we can be absolutely certain about is that the us government should continue to pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse , and , perhaps with the “ midlands engine , ” too .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . fortunately , some encouraging recent signs have emerged that the idea of a unitary tax has been gaining traction . new delhi , for some time now , multinational corporations ( mncs ) have gaming the global economy ’s rules to minimize their tax liability , or even eliminate it altogether . and , for some time now , an independent commission on corporate reform ( icrict ) has argued for mncs ’ unitary taxation .
recent breakthroughs in basic science provide the hope that a vaccine can develop within ten years if billions of dollars of research and development fund are mobilized by both the public and private sectors . the third step needs to be an expanded program of research and development into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . with specially designed , inexpensive combinations of drugs , and drug being provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , perhaps we be able to extend arv therapies to even very poor countries at affordable prices . this includes : funding to stop the transmission of maternal aids ; funding to help fight infections such as tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and a good program design , even funding for anti-retrovirals . the most promising response for the long term is a protective vaccine .
to that end , national governments have the responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and gender-based practices , policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and norms . but gender-based violence can be difficult to detect . in reality , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – during their lifetime . to that end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and norms .
despite complaints by the catholic church ’s episcopal conference , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse refused even to allow a recount of the ballots , or scrutiny of impartial observers . this month , new mayors took office without an electoral commission ( cse ) making the public 100 % of the popular vote , an open violation of nicaraguan electoral law . though citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to the violence to curb them . and , in protest peacefully , the fsln resorted to violence to curb them . yet , although electoral fraud in managua was the most widely documented , the same modus operandi has appeared throughout the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities .
moving from one high office at the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of russia ’s parliament ) is mere technicality . even if putin finds a way to preserve power without amending the constitution , the opportunity that has been endlessly debated of russia ’s ’s ’s dwindling band of democrats , the undemocratic nature of his strategy compacts glaringly obvious . what will make this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . it has been argued that only presidential democracy reinforces the russian political culture ’s inclination to favor single-handedly rulers , whereas a parliamentary system would have allowed for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power . putin will be tsar regardless of what office is formally in his own .
morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after winning international acclaim for his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt in nascent democracy . the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , with both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( to which they have largely written ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , with both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( to which it has largely written ) . at the same time , the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will return with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election in march , to demand a response within a few months . it would be a wrong mistake , but it is wrong now .
and it was the alternative meanings that initially permitted politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of a majoritarian democracy . in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in their personlifestyles . the word “ liberalism , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to mean “ all people , did not really mean the same thing . in many circles , it came to serve as a powerful description of unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in their personlifestyles . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened .
essentially , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . in that case , which variety of populist parties will seize up the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik is presenting the appeal of populism with a focus on this issue . in fact , the probability is that such reforms will sink all boats , giving the populists their chance .
though globalization is a progressive process , it gained momentum when china chose to play the game . german precision instruments and optical devices , for example , lost their competitive edge when japan entered the game . the second shock was eu integration , including the northern and southern pre-thatcher enlargements . china is ten times japan ’s size , and japan has not been easy to grapple with , either . the first shock has intensified globalization , bringing many new low-wage competition .
america ’s deteriorating fiscal position is leading to a strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut did two decades ago . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for exports and good for imports . it is the government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . in a dynamic economy , if jobs disappear in one sector , new jobs emerge in another . it is the primary responsibility of the government to maintain full employment .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculations . to be sure , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – are insisting not only on the primacy of their national interests , but also as the failed paris climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated when sovereign freedom of action was being done equally well . but , on the big issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europe appears to be trapped between an inadequately cohesive eu foreign policy and a uncertainty among individual countries about how to define and secure their own national interests . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooled sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many big issues , from climate change , nuclear proliferation – that is , to which bedevil our world . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it forms the foundation of all of its external actions .
such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s primary weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , rather than after , the war . the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received 46 % of the votes . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal and paid lip service to his life . without full oversight of either the proof or the accused , the icty has lacked the outset of the legitimacy and authority of “ the victoria ’s justice . ” despite his campaign ’s promises , serbia has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting it in turning mladic ( karadzic is likely not in serbia ) into whom it would surely testify against milosevic .
to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue stemming from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but a new approach is also underpinned by the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and the economy . moreover , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better socioeconomic and environmental outcomes , alongside more subdued gdp gains . that shift is associated with a third , broader trend : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed in environmental terms , particularly with respect to climate change . for starters , the global financial meltdown and the ensuing recession have laid the groundwork for free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes .
johannesburg – my country liberalized the abortion more than two decades ago ; but , on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has practically stripped my right even to write that word . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information on issues related to sexual and reproductive health , including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . as part of my work , i often edit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 , and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , the ngo i was working for the stopped distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it contained information in south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion . as a young south african woman at the time , she is offering abortion services for more than a decade .
is there an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea , indeed , stand forever ? how should it approach china ’s creation not just facts on the ground , but the ground itself , in the south china sea ? the electoral campaign will heat back at a time when america is facing a daunting set of problems . indeed , how can america react resolutely to russian aggression without forsaking a long-term project of bringing it closer to the west ?
the world can not and will not stroll into the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , libya , iraq , or syria . since september , the us has retaken 700 square kilometers of territory , with far more than half the world ’s population . the us disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , hijacked half of its senior leadership , squeezed its financing , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . the us has deprived the group of its means and resulting revenues , its 200 oil and gas facilities .
while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technologies , they failed to note that visitors vacuumed up political ideas alongside scholarly secrets . sadly , bush has n’t learned that lesson , either . when the berlin wall collapsed in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , rather than artillery , brought down . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . many of these scholars became leading proponents of human rights and liberalization inside the ussr .
after all , if china is america ’s leading economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s leading diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” its aging population watches resignedly as the new , younger asia become just as important as america as europe was during the cold war . today , chinese-style and indian-style modernity are mentally destabilizing japan . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as a “ anti-china , ” ” and , in order to counterbalance the world ’s “ biggest democracy , ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ”
new york – the global recession now occurring as a result not only of a financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . consumers pull back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have suffered a bust of their wealth with falling share prices and rising housing values , but also because they do n’t really know where to turn . should they risk buying a new car , when gasoline prices could soar again ? decisions about the business investment are even starker . consumers are dragging their back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have suffered a bust of their wealth with falling share prices and rising housing values , but also because they have no idea where to turn .
the total destruction of the polish state , and its institutions , made poland the ideal location for nazi extermination camps in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . no trace of polish authority remained . these were german-controlled camps in the occupied poland . this is one reason why poland has been right to insist that the camps could not even be labeled “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . everywhere in predominantly polish , the nazis had to deal with , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated manner , with local governments , if only for tactical purposes .
in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other us company , and finished second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . india ’s tata sells its cars worth 75 % less than its european competitors . india ’s leading supplier to the world ’s telecoms firm finds itself in china , where huawei is now just the head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . in the telecoms sector , some half-dozen emerging-market multinational companies now rank ten .
meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and medicare , which can not be inflated away . what would help matters if their nominal disposable incomes rose relative to their ( fixed ) debt-service costs . even for the distressed households that have borrowed long term , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . even america ’s government , with the debt duration of around four years , would have little to do with the oil-price surprise unless it was enormous . still , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households might have been worse off , with higher food and fuel prices slashed into disposable income .
of course , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm barely now , xi probably has not settled on particular priorities . nonetheless , some potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent . unless he missed an opportunity to advance the goal of the us-led trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) trade deal , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he undoubtedly will not pass the chance to ensure that the g20 agenda serves china ’s interests . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china ’s own domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . while china ’s leadership will be hoping , lack of a 2009 drama , president xi jinping certainly has not settled on concrete priorities .
new york – in the wake of the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the country ’s national assembly , who supported the revolutionary gains placed squarely in the left , while those who opposed them and hankered following the old pecuniary orders of the monarchy and church congregated across the far right . many commentators on the french presidential election point out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else in the world . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither right nor the left . hence , the political terms “ left behind ” and “ right . ” marine le pen , whose national front associates relate with the far right , disagree : to her , macron , who was a minister in the socialist government , is a leftist .
we should toast the likely achievement : some form of the financial-product safety commission will be created ; more derivative trades move to exchanges and clearing houses from murky ’s shadows “ ring-fencing ” to markets ; and some of the worst homeowners will have to be constrained . but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the problem for too-big-to-fail banks today is worse than it was in the aftermath of the crisis . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fee charged for any debit transaction is a sort of tax that goes without any public purpose , but to fill the banks ’ coffers , will be curbed . as a result , it will probably be a long time before we are allowed to judge the success of whatever law the american congress ultimately enacts . but the criteria for judgment are clear : a new law must curb the practices that are threatening the entire global economy ; reorient the financial system toward its proper function – managing risk ; allocating capital ; granting credit ( mainly to small – and medium-size enterprises ) ; and working an efficient fee system .
but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are being reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , while germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial oppressing pursuits . this is why german and french introspection generally focuses on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british have often struck a hit at the european project on its own . to be sure , most french and german citizens identify with europe as being opposed to the uk ’s citizens , who identify with the british as british , or even as english , irish , slovak , or welsh . there are , of course , many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . the uk is naturally closer to nato than france .
by agreeing to limit current income-tax rates for just two years , the tax package reduces the projected national debt by the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or nearly 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . while the new tax law is commonly described as a fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a large , imminent fiscal contraction . the long-term implications of the deal lie in stark contrast to obama ’s ’s ’s february 2010 budget proposal , and to the republican counter-proposal . obama wanted to keep the tax rates low for all taxpayers , except for annual incomes above $ 250,000 . the republican party has proposed continuing the tax rate right now for all taxpayers .
reactions to the crisis will be a hastening of movement toward on-line buying , in which the physical location is no longer a preeminent part of shopping choice . indeed , the automobile market rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . but regimes like public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply ran many people into rescheduling their purchases . the crisis has also exposed the extent of america ’s massive over-capacity in its retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls are forced into close . spending on automobiles ground up to a halt , until the government ’s stimulus programs in many countries revived it .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within a stratified society . as one confucian classical put it : possessing virtue amounts to handing the ruler a ruler . possessing the people gives him his territory . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler .
alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime in syria , syrians are unlikely to comply with an american state for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and their marriage to terror . the most realistic scenario , then , looks like a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah . a damascene conversion is not only impossible ; it is also vital to regional peace . the only way out of a deadly iranian embrace is through a regional peace plan . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , cutting off hezbollah along arms lines , while giving the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed .
thailand ’s farms became increasingly estranged from the country ’s urban elite . for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , the wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan area , the boon of the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide , and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that has long prevailed . for thailand ’s sake , for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of more than two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan area , the boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . for thailand , for the long term , the wealth resided mostly in the bangkok metropolitan area , the boon for the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who took part in the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including establishment activists and religious leaders who were forced to flee syria in support of the revolution . if the alawites and sunnis live abroad can stand together against the assad regime , so could their counterparts in syria . the delegates allied with a number of sunni opposition members , denounced assad and announced their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that would offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of the sect or the ethnic background . by setting an example for coexistence , they can soften the alawites ’ fears in syria ’s ouster ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who were forced to flee syria in favor of supporting the revolution . if the alawites and sunnis who live abroad are crucial to his ouster , the conference ’s organizing communiqué took notice .
though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did n’t force this issue . on the other hand , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . on the other hand , china ’s is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by wide margins , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . after all , china announced its plans for the aiib soon after signing on the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 . for the ndb , each of the brics holds an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to initial subscribed capital .
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that attracted wide bipartisan support . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as america ’s policy toward mexico has dramatically increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type character becoming president there , officials are granting positive publicity to a government that looks a caricature of disastrous us governance . instead of bashing latin america , the american people need to show that it can be a steady , principled friend that wo n’t be swayed by the corrupt bribes of any kind . instead of bashing latin america , the trump administration needs to show that it can not be a steady , principled friend that wo n’t be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that attracted broad bipartisan support .
europeans , after all , remain committed to democracy worldwide . a similar solution should be found for europe ’s constitution . but , in a european way of thinking , democracy must be diffused pacifically by persuasion , not arms force . indeed , the political imperative is just as great as it is constitutional . europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the address also sharpened the contours , already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland , of what might be called the “ trump doctrine . ” in each case , the potential for us-india security cooperation in afghanistan seems to have been debated only by the two governments . the implications of trump ’s speaking extend beyond america ’s unilateralism in afghanistan . trump seems to regard what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , using his vast earnings from exports to america to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also hinted at the american will work with india to establish a indo-pacific security zone .
it orchestrated the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction reconstruction , and more . china now has a bigger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , even though still only about one-fourth of the size in per capita terms . the share of the world economy that america represented has declined by around half ( to around 16 % today ) . as economists put it , global growth has been “ “ convergent ” , ” meaning that the poorer countries were catching up . under this order , the rest of the world closed down much of the vast tech , education , and infrastructural gap with the u.s. .
and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentives for innovation are also critical . indeed , as a report by the international panel on sustainable development finance points out , financing frameworks for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever . focusing on corporate social responsibility could help ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while the demands of energy – and the demands of resource-efficiency could help to safeguard sustainability . of course , achieving this objective , not to mention another sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . given budgetary pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied on to fill that need .
to be sure , most taxes involve heavy “ excess burdens ” : the cost is much greater than the value of the revenues raised , owing to potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a tax on oil , on the other hand , does not impose excess burden . shifts to ever more energy-efficient ways of transportation ease . for example , if high oil prices implied taxes that were then reallocated to oil users would be unambiguously good . by contrast , it implies excess benefits .
sales of lesser-horrible and functional foods are those that add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible stardom , cholesterol reducers , soy or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable “ qualified ” ” health claims made by the us food and drug administration ( fda ) . when one routinely gets to buy such foods , you are among the lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers , the health-care food industry , ’s cherished demographic foundation . like so many humans , my idea was that small-scale , innovative companies dominate functional foods . you are buying low-carbohydrate goods , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and virtually anything with health claims . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ computer foods ” – are those for which manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol , soy , or milk ( whey ) the proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable them to take advantage of “ qualified ” child and drug administration ( fda ) .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . the case for capital-market integration , followed by that of the single currency , was similar . unity was supposedly a cornerstone of prosperity . the common market was defended at the start with the benefits that follow from increased trade . specifically , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for nineteenth-century-style european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly diverse .
more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . according to a recent study , impact investing in america would not exist without the support of and partnerships with the federal government through grants , loans , and guarantees . metrics are an important feature of pay-for-performance contracts and needs to be an integral feature of every government program . in sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve a measurable social purpose ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors finance a program at upfront costs , and government promise a return to them if program ’s targets are to be met . several existing federal programs , like the community reinvestment act , and a small-scale entrepreneurial investment corporation program , promote impact investing in funding .
under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative has been that the ccp has led the resistance against japan . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices ; an additional 14 million dead , and a major contribution in keeping more than a half-million japanese troops also reflects the partisan history of warfare learned in china itself . china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly regarding western ignorance about its wartime role as unacceptable . foreign assistance – including america ’s important role in the wartime china – had no place in this story , either . under mao ’s leadership , the only acceptable narrative has been that the ccp led the opposition against japan .
wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the destruction that preceded it . likewise , whereas case-shiller america home price index now stands at 10.2 % for the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high ? but are these newfound wealth effects ?
after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . yet that distinction may not be nearly as powerful . in fact , the socialists have started to distinguish themselves not from what they are , but from what they are , not to be , touting the line , “ neither macron ” nor “ mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues across europe , from europe , secularism , education , business , and more – and thus makes it extraordinarily difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . and they knew what they were voting for : each policy that had been implemented thus far was incorporated into its campaign platform .
the brutal crackdown on the post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by whatever means necessary . there is even less at stake here in saudi arabia , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . syria ’s president bashar al-assad appears to have more domestic support than the minority shia , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , and foreign-construction workers petitioning for higher pay and better functioning conditions . nor do iran ’s government appear to face a real danger . syria ’s president bashar al-assad appears to have more domestic support than the recent media accounts for unrest among largely sunnis , and by foreign-construction workers petitioning iran ’s higher-salary and better functioning conditions .
mexico city – four central american countries , guatemala , el salvador , honduras , honduras , and nicaragua , are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s war . but now there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects might improve as well . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not exactly in the same category as central america has the other three . like them , it suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike it , however , successive governments have constructed institutions capable of fostering a commensurate level of territorial control and domestic security . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption , all but forgotten by the international community .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons since the 2011 uprisings . as growth has slowed , public expenditures have fallen , fueling economic insecurity . in addition , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons , from the 2011 uprisings . even where fiscal adjustment barely started , the old rent distribution model became unaffordable , with populists turning against regimes that seemed unable or unwilling to mount a persuasive reformist effort . no longer content with simply displacing aging autocrats , protesters are also targeting key features of deep state and security forces .
there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported enemy . us president donald trump ’s administration nonetheless is throwing this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from displaying a capacity to persuade , as the title of his book the art of the deal may imply , trump is trying to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . it is a reflection of his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense in order to fulfill their nato commitments , a valid us demand , but also to keep trying to channel that spending toward us-made arms systems .
using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we have identified many of those countries where investors are missed risk – and opportunities . so , even as public deficits and debt are low before the crisis , they may rise sharply after one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound like them are suddenly insolvent . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at national stocks and national account flows to capture all dangers , including risk premiums in the financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues . as we saw in recent crises , private risk taking and debt is socialized as long as a crisis occurs .
i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as the chair of the urban growth commission that advocated for the “ north powerhouse , ” ” ” a program to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic unit . i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as the chair of the urban growth commission that advocated for the “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic force . abedi never attended a concert on the manchester arena , killing at least 22 people , along with many of his children . abedi had a powerful hand in the policy aspects of this great city ’s economic revival . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government in support of the establishment of the north powerhouse .
one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . nile delta , around 60 miles north of cairo ’s tahrir square , the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , is home to lower-level school students , called “ the chief prison . ” “ we never saw a revolution here , ” he said a few months ago to clean up his name for fear of losing his job . a deformed box of concrete packaged dilapidated classrooms , the school is pockmarked with age and neglect . “ we have never seen a revolution here , ” ” ” ” he said some months ago to clean up his name for fear of losing his job .
first , the projected fiscal multipliers , the figure by which gnp fall as a result of every dollar of fiscal contraction , used for gnp forecast that a contraction of one dollar in the primary fiscal deficit would be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected drop in real gnp is very much optimistic , because it relies on a multiplicity of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade , ” in which the 2017-2026 period will inevitably form the basis of a debt-restructuring debate that looks like a crisis to which all parties would be eager to quit . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected drop in real gnp is highly optimistic , because it relies on multiple implausible and/or controversial assumptions . yet the ten-year fiscal plan endorsed by the cbo for the 2017-2026 period , which will inevitably form the basis of a debt-restructuring debate , appears to ignore this circularity .
the first involves development aid ; second , strengthening international institutions such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such control distorts the evolution of open societies . i propose that the world ’s open societies form an alliance with a dual purpose : fostering both the development of open societies within individual countries and the evolution of a global open society . eliminating this constraint may jeopardize the evolution of open societies . such alliances require collaboration not only of governments , but also of civil society .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . accra , a proposed parenthood , an vital source of child sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced out of the us federal title x family-planning program , which supports children of low-income families . the decision , a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration , forbidding title x clinics from referring to abortion patients , will cost planned parenthood some $ 60 million annually . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting american interests elsewhere in the world .
yet in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at 45 % six years after its war ended . given these flaws , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects are often quite small relative to the magnitude of the problem . yet post-conflict employment policies nearly invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” employment policies , for example , have done very little to reduce entrenched regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that have persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the war there in the 1990s . in both kosovo and bosnia , and herzegovina , job creation has been considered central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts .
upon this reflection , japan will firmly embrace fundamental values like freedom , democracy and human rights as unhardens , and by working hand in hand with countries sharing such values , dominos of the banner of “ proactive contribution to peace , ” ” ” ” ” ” and would contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than at any time in history . we will engrave in our hearts the past , when japan ended up becoming a challenger to the international order . prosperity is the very foundation of peace in the developing world . we will strengthen assistance for developing countries and lead the world toward further prosperity . japan , for its part , will make even greater efforts to combat poverty , which also serves as a hotspots of violence , and provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to every person in the world .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participating . in bahrain , the shia who comprise 75 % of the population have been keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah . this systematic neutering of shia in saudi arabia is legitimised by the wahhabi religious establishment , and supported by many fatwas , denouncing them as heresy . while they comprise just 20 % of the total saudi population , they comprise a majority – -75 % – of the oil-rich region ’s population . saudi arabia ’s shia have endured discrimination in the profession : in the army , high government posts , a diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , in the oil sector where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . the replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer number of lives that it will help to save . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver goods . in the process , deaths from aids fell by 50 % from their peak , and malaria deaths declined by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new financing for continuing this work .
depression can be cured , but only by giving a positive vision to a patient in the future . that is the kind of political depression itself . the right-centrist parties , the union of right forces and yabloko , do have such a vision , and the people are well aware of it . alienated for so long the country ’s brightest have been trickling down their hand in politics . their higher education , it seems , lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the percent of university-educated people is twice that of university-educated people .
only an explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council may ensure the legitimacy and international support needed to make military action – apart from clear self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not come at the heart of the issues in iraq . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not – above all , on this front – change a crucial perception of that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond . this applies to actions contemplated by individual nations , from temporary alliances , or to more durable alliances like nato . this last point was at the heart of the problems in iraq .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first giving birth when younger had more children . that left 95 % of variation , in order to explain the impact of cultural and individual choices , was the answer . however , genes are just one in many factors affecting height and age at first birth . personal choices , nutrition , income levels , education and religious affiliations all enter the mix . when we estimated how large variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the response was equivalent to less than 5 % .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s ’s political and economic institutions , one would have expected europe ’s leaders to reinforce as many unifying symbols as they could . unlike the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , far too well loved . in 2011 , according to the united nations supreme court , more than 60,000 people sought their help , far more than can be expected of reasoned decisions . instead , they allowed one of the practices of post-world war ii european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under the threat of just as well . ( by contrast , the united nations supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions a year . )
to identify the best approach in any particular case , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving the collection of intelligence and data . in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to be serving vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to broach terrorism ; another provides critical energy deals or access to raw materials . inevitably , leaders must contend with difficult tradeoffs . as security expert sarah chayes argues in the name of combating corruption , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data .
willingly or not , some might seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings in order to fund the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) or , eventually , to outright debt restructurings . finally , they are in different methods from forcing current and future generations to shoulder the entire burden of accumulated debt . they may be viewed as alternative forms of taxation , if implicit rather than explicit . all three of the unorthodox remedies have been applied in the past decade by default . is the adjust fully ?
george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted by himself ) for not having what he called “ the vision thing ” . following the september 2001 terrorist shock , his son , george w. bush , advanced an even more ambitious vision . sometimes leaders think that vision can address most of their problems , but a mistaken vision or over-ambitious vision can do harm . yet one need to be wary of the visions of the term . when pressed about his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ it ’s just not me . ”
and the private sector has come around to view renewable energies as a potentially lucrative enterprise . moreover , according to a recent american department of energy ’s energy report , the number of jobs held in wind and solar industries increased by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . trump ’s foreign-policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has spearheaded the initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovations . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from his own climate commitments . in the us , the cost of wind energy has fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and the cost of utility-scale solar power has decreased by 85 % .
already , the spillover effects from trade and financial transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , a reflection of a major slowdown , and india ’s growth rate is expected to drop to around 6 % this year . moreover , so long as conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia might be tempted to engage in further fiscal stimulus . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers can help it avoid a hard landing . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector , as well as in local governments , could undermine efforts to safeguard its growth . it has already been aggressively tempted by monetary policy and can employ another round of fiscal stimulus .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp reached roughly $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the relentless 1990 american dollar price , or $ 17,000 for the u.s. dollar ’s steady prices in perpetuity . in hong kong , it slowed to 5.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will fall well below 7 % . in south korea , growth fell to 4.8 % in 2010 . in hong kong , for example , it slowed to 5.8 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . contrary to the trump administration , obama and his advisers have believed that there is much to be gained through acknowledging difficult political truths , even when doing so points to a radical change of course . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” is that it includes the united states ’ public admission of past missteps in the region . after all , iran and the us had already been at war for decades , and neither side has had an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
some of the best people serving the ecb , or who have served in the old days , are from small countries . giving big countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easier for their politicians to take control of the ecb through the process of appointments . the last thing the ecb needs is the political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder , who has been telling mr. issing ’s key post . it is far more difficult to appoint a political appointee to the board in an open-contest system than under the current scheme . preventing small countries , just like other big ones , from competing for particular vacant seats reduces the executive board of would-be competency .
indeed , excess wage deflation is likely to have a negative effect on productivity . as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth are likely to continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign debts and commercial banks . but labor costs have risen much faster in the global south , resulting in differential costs that can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . skilled labor is likely to emigrate faster and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high levels of unemployment , and the consequent likelihood of social tension have not been explicitly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or productive investment are likely to continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign debt and commercial banks .
former prime minister john major called the uk “ the land of the long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , the invincible green suburbs , the dog spillovers , and pools of fillers , and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to holy communion through the morning fog … but what they really describe was england . an institution called the english heritage curates the past , from stonehenge ’s prehistoric monuments to old country homes that are celebrated in tv costume dramas . indeed , the key elements of a modern british identity all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . likewise , established or state church-church was england ’s church , made nearly 500 years ago , when new delhi ’s king henry viii decided that the catholics of the church should not adjudicate his capital . of course , this does not mean that no identity is maintained .
that stance makes the alliance far more equal than it has been at any point in the past six decades . in america ’s view , reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ “ peace constitution ” that abe has pledged , thereby enabling japan ’s self-defense forces to aid its allies under attack , and assisting america and other us allies in meeting their commitments to securing asia ’s standing long overdue . both abe and obama focus on creating the durable structure of peace for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard and , in support of its allies . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ readiness to do so . that bold policy initiative , faced with the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any heightened exposure to military risks , has no doubt endeared abe to american diplomats and military strategists as well as to secure both an open and occasionally tacit consent from japan ’s asian neighbors .
indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ low . ” with khamenei having served as president before ascended to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership positions , it is easy to see that a conservative candidate raisi was among his choice to succeed him , might well become khamenei ’s successor . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history , and , as the long line of citizens anxious to cast a clear vote , the iranians know it . the matter of who will occupies the presidency during that transition is certainly not inconsequential .
but this absence of quick success does not mean that such efforts are futile . unfortunately , however , leaders from china , south korea , and japan have yet to produce a major breakthrough on even the most sensitive security issues dividing them . the recent trilateral summit between china , south korea , and japan serves as fourth such a meeting to take place , in addition to meeting meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . furthermore , north korea has been developing nuclear weapons ; its economic fragility , and its sense of insecurity regarding its very future as a sovereign country breeds deep anxieties among its neighbors . yet , despite all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them .
for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here , the past should not be viewed as prologue . and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports , the walmart effect is that it enables them to stretch their budgets at an era of unrelenting pressures on jobs and real incomes . china has made a conscious strategic choice of altering its growth strategy , one hopes , in the future . for more than 20 years , that mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well well in compensating each other for their self-intrinsic saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas .
other long-term bonds , both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer similar declines . with the current inflation rate above 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer-run ( as measured by five-year five-year-forward zero inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year treasury bonds are expected to exceed 4 % . a rise in ten-year yields to 4 % would lower the value of such bonds substantially . at the same time , reaching yield has narrowed the credit spreads between high-grade bonds and riskier home and emerging-market bonds . ten-year treasury bonds now yield just 2.5 % .
because raising capital is both difficult and costly , they deleverage by less lending . moreover , because us financial institutions ’ assets have been bought primarily with borrowed money , credit shortages are compounded by their need to deleverage . falling employment is lowering wages – and borrowing incomes are too low and borrowing incomes . without this confidence , credit wo n’t get over and over-leveraged economic activity . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now extends far beyond impaired credit supply falling house prices and thus in consumer spending .
today , the risk is that the new keynesian doctrinaire will be used and engaged in speculation around the world may have served its firms well , despite imposing huge costs on the rest of the world . have a change of heart come or merely a change of strategy ? have those who pushed for deregulation ten years ago taught their lessons ? or will they simply put pressure on cosmetic reform , the bare minimum needed to justify a “ mega-trillion dollar bailouts ” ? enabling america to sell its risky financial products , and engage in speculation throughout the world , may have served its firms well , despite imposing great costs on others .
wage restraint and productivity gains improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , recovery is spreading to other sectors . to be sure , a precise policy approach adopted in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . in the short term , the credibility with which ireland gained through a resolute fiscal policy and reform helped restore confidence , facilitate a return to growth , and thus to fiscal consolidation . this growth was fueled by a variety of factors .
and , while rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type result as a default , the talmudic sages show us just why a more thoughtful classification is required . given that this scheme would imply losses for bondholders , it would require substantial official muscle and peer pressure . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of the eventual write-down actually add up to its superior outcome . the third component is the exercise of suasion to bondholders in order to reach maximum participation , obtaining binding pre-obligations , and eliminating free riders . and , despite the upfront pressure , bondholders ’ behavior might be treated as truly voluntary .
this observation is as true of an individual as it is about the eu , whether the eu is a neighborhood , town , state , or province , or a country . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of capabilities or goods , and exchange them for millions of other things that we have no clue about how to do or make . in some sense , a market economy involves a gift-exchange system ; money simply tracks the value of the gifts that we give to one another . every city has its grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that serve the local community . as a consequence , we end up doing remarkably few things and buying anything else from others .
another consortium began to build multi-trillion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west . oil and gas pipelines are transport conduits , not real employers . but these investments have brought no economic trickle down . moreover , georgian rewards for delivering a strategic export route to azeri oil was not dollars , but a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , westernization , particularly the us , concerned about the safety of its pipelines . as it stands , people here are more able to survive on just a few dollars a day .
politicians warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches or read in business newspapers . even in hong kong , where equities recently hit new highs , they are only about 10 % above their early 1994 peak . on the same three consecutive year , prices in wall street and europe have skyrocketed by 60 % or more . japanese shares are worth more than half their 1990 lows .
national banking systems should be unified to separate private losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme that forms the heart of europe ’s banking union . austerity should be eased , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small - and medium-size firms in over-indebted eu countries . germany ’s reluctance to lead on such issues partly reflects the historical inhibitions that are always tough to overcome . powerful central institutions , responsible for directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . in the shorter term , the single market should be enlarged to make services available , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states .
just consider the massive access to the education of its huge rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” india . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn between wars and externalities , is about to become the world ’s second-most powerful economy . china , which has just been glorified with the martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s republic ” constitutes one of the most exciting instances of a nation evincing “ short-sightedness ” toward its own past . china ’s insolent prosperity , even when it is far from being distributed unequally , china ’s ’s ’s ’s relative political stability constitutes one of the nation ’s most intriguing cases evincing “ short-termism ” toward its past . just consider china ’s massive access to the education of its huge rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival ” ” india .
by allowing for exchange-rate flexibility , such an approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that emerge in a currency union : undervaluation , which produces inflationary pressure and overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits of central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasury ) . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland can be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thus protecting investors against additional devaluation risk . perhaps more importantly , it would not have a lender of last resort able to stabilize the banking and financial system during times of crisis . all things considered an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates under domestic economic conditions .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia ’s output . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” captured the gains of economic change . while the transition was bound to be painful , the russian epidemic of corruption caused more political damage than the economic side effect of reform . with the government in charge , and thus economic reform , the authorities would pay to see this neglect at the polls . corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world .
though he does n’t sacrifice major moral codes of power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . it is possible that his image as the right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who wants serbia to reestablish its pre-wwii monarchy , and that the orthodox church can play a prominent role in its political and social life . he crams his mediocrities , selects mostly bad advisers , and does n’t listen to the scarce good ones . while he does not sacrifice major moral codes for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer that he once was . he is neither corrupt nor war crimes , neither aggressive in his utterance and behavior nor likely to bending the rule of law to personal power .
the yellow vests must choose : a democratic re-invention , or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct , or an urge to destroy . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to win out over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming , they will only lead to chaos , not improved , lives of humble , and vulnerable people . they will careen to the darkest side of the political night and end in the dustbin of history , where they can rub elbows with those more yellows , early-twentieth-century yellow socialists ” ” ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the yellow vests will have to choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct or an urge to destroy . they will careen to the darkest side of the political night ; and to end up in a dustbin of history in which they can rub elbows only by chaos , rather than by improving , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow vests ” pierre biétry .
a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it ’s as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win of one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” what lessons can be drawn from turkish businesses ’ failure in iran ? others continue to blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” supposed to fear that iran and turkey might become overly powerful . according to iranian-turkish business leaders , “ it ’s overwhelmingly complicated to do business in iran . ” what possible lessons can be drawn from turkish businesses ’ failure in iran ?
smart collaborative projects that appeal to innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and respiratory ailments are also substantially less available and proportionally more expensive for people in low – and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this disparity has prompted the medicaid journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ issue of social justice of our time . ” moreover , we need to invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that are suited to low-resource settings . the essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also substantially less available and proportionally more expensive for lower-paid people – and for middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . diabetes is not unique among ncds .
in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 advice , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme . each 18 months later , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases the economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a tally of earlier recommendations and their implementation status . but an international organization should be judged by the quality of the information and advice it provides , not whether governments listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores this goal : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by notifying officials about its costs and benefits . south orange , new jersey , if an international organization made recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , and the country adopted fewer than half of it , an organization might seem like failure .
then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he has described has “ “ “ “ the worst deal ” “ ever . ” he also needs to do nothing to weaken the north korean regime ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . moreover , he will have to keep any of the alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable in the face of a inter-korean dialogue . most important , he will need to get the north korean regime to contend , at least in order to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal and agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit .
germany ’s upcoming government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and the willingness to push for a european-level reform , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come . an end to the cdu/csu “ spd ” “ grand coalition ” might mean the end of political stagnation not only in germany , but around the european level as well . another way of viewing the german electoral result as an opportunity , then , is as a new beginning . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp determined not to join the eu , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica , ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens .
elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that provided a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . it would have lasted for six long years under rapacious military rule , before nigeria could have won yet another chance in a democracy . last year , nigeria was celebrating a remarkable run from dictatorship . following the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler , general rao abacha , who abruptly backed down – the us military sullenly agreed to yet another national election . in fact , the timing could n’t have been worse .
for example , reducing maternal mortality from birth would not be sufficient to provide antenatal attention , safe delivery , and official care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care . such barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health , as well as for gender equality more broadly , governments need to acknowledge their responsibility to address the needs of women . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . for starters , to lower maternal deaths , it is not enough to provide antenatal attention , safe on-delivery services , and micro-natal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care at all .
in order to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be underpinned by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s abundance of power , food , water , and biodiversity all raise its stakes in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access or control of , natural resources . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . accordingly , it emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , says that modernizing armed forces are intrinsically connected to domestic developments .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , and its style and substance to its foreign policies . yao ming , china ’s star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , might have become another michael jordan ; and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . but the real promise for china and india lies in the future , too . the big expatriate communities in the us , 2.4 million chinese , and 1.7 million indians , have stepped up interests in their home countries among others in america . moreover , transnational links in the information sector are close , as western high-tech companies increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to deliver real-time services .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union , an agreement that ukrainians had fought and died in kyiv last winter , signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation can win an western acquiescence in ukraine ’s subjugation and theft of crimea . europe can not afford to be taken by by . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the winter will cause them to forget their allies ’ security interests , a classical divide-and-rule strategy that has served children well . ukraine may now be just moving along in the eye of the gathering . delayed , intended to demonstrate the eu to make the association agreement work , instead having only whetted putin ’s appetite .
where possible , regional funding and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and agricultural oversight , fisheries , and local welfare programs – should be delegated to suitable regional bodies such as scotland ’s parliament , welsh and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local authorities . that convention should start by looking at brexit ’s impact on regions . we should ask , for example , whether it makes sense to repatriate competences and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or when certain powers and funding should instead be decentralized toward regions and peoples . to that end , re-frame the constitution to include regional interests , and recognize that the uk is a multinational state . such radical change , and , to match the scale of the crisis , must be radical , requires a nationwide debate that could be conducted via a people ’s constitutional convention .
though most of its citizens do n’t realize it , the eu does serve as an inspiring example . the eu can not possibly adopt the eu as the world ’s leader . but it can lay the example , both within and outside its borders . the prospect of membership has been the most powerful tool at turning candidate countries into open societies . as a result , the eu no longer has a stature to set the world ’s agenda .
this is not to say that the athletic glory substitutes for military glories . to be sure , putin believes the olympics , and , specifically , the medals at the top , to be highly significant . that ’s why he personally lobbied russia to host russia ’s 2014 red army games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was good , to consider russia to have the most immediate medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics , which make up the heart of the doping scandal . ) like its old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glories .
china ’s rise is one of the most studied development of our time . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been far more impressive than that of any north korean rocket . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s greatest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a shockingly tough time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly its historic friend and ally . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to engage in international sanctions often bears their share of faith when judging actions by whether and when they are not working . perhaps real pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case is the reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and internal fixation .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has grabbing headlines worldwide , creating much contradictory explanations . still others suspect the tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states aimed at , among other things , faltering political rivals like russia and iran . some attribute to the spread of america ’s oil and gas production . some attribute the fall largely to the decline in global growth expectations . regardless of the reason for the us asset-price collapse , perhaps in some combination of these factors , the consequences are just that .
with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should stay high , or even rise further , in the foreseeable future . at around $ 30 a barrel , us oil prices remain at an all-time high , despite a soft global economy , implying that world demand is low . with the american economy now recovering strongly , house oil prices should stay high , or even rise further , in the foreseeable future . the earlier fashionable view that an american seizure of iraqi oil resources would disrupt opec , sending oil prices soaring , or even rise further , in the foreseeable future . even with improved security , it would take five years to get iraqi oil at full stages of it .
as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : violates the ghost , but not the letter , of the european union treaty on no-bailout provision ; its promise of equal treatment with private lenders still carries no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash , witness the german press ’s visceral reactions to ecb president mario draghi . reversal of this process will likely not happen until the three key components of the banking union , common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund , come within tangible bounds . but saber-rattling also fits well with a grand body of historical proof that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire rather than negotiating over who possesses it and what its cost should be . after all , if markets truly believe that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would be fleeing from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality has not been met . the omt program will generate credit conditions for ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the past three years .
so far , the one american presidential candidate who has acknowledged the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing welfare and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high cost on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . premium support can cut medicare spending substantially , because it establishes a framework for more efficient benefits spending , fueled by competition and innovation in care and coverage . to enable individuals to prepare to conceal the associated deductibles and copayments , health-care savings accounts – pretax funds at prevailing levels – and can be used tax-free at any time to cover qualified health-care costs – should be scaled up and strengthened . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have stepped up constructive reform ideas as well . for starters , bipartisan premium support proposals , with seniors accepting subsidies to purchase private health insurance , should carry out .
fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that an italian state ’s monopoly of tv would not survive , and jump-started what have become italy ’s main , privately owned media group . silvio berlusconi , who turns out to be president of the european union on july 1 , is a man of vision , who once loved risk , and whose business bets have paid off the big picture . but you do n’t win in tv , and real estate business without proper political connections . in the 1960s , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where people walked into the job , would have become a modern metropolises surrounded by american-style connections . silvio berlusconi , who became the president of the european union on july 1 , is the man of the vision , where people ’s party , once loved risk -- and whose business bets pay off the big bang .
for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which entails freeing more funding for lending by banks that allocate a certain proportion of their total loan portfolios to small and medium-size enterprises . at the same time , the pboc , through its “ pledged supplemental ” lending ” program , has initiated lending directly to banks that have committed to using social-housing funds . early this year , however , the state council – china ’s cabinet – made loosening financing costs on companies , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top-priority . beijing – financial repression , government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of channeling low-cost financing toward public spending – has long been a key feature of chinese economic policymaking . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in prudent monetary loosening , which entails freeing up more funding for lending by banks , which allocate a certain proportion of their total loan portfolios to smes .
countries with the greatest cause of concern over russia – ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania – are not being offered by nato membership . but nato enlargement is also far too weak to threaten them , because the russian army ’s catastrophic misadventures in chechnya demonstrates . russia ’s democrats , with their enormous stake in a peaceful future , are adamant that extending alliance membership to central europe will isolate their countries from europe , consolidating russia ’s political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying cry for reconstructing russia ’s military power . one day , russia will grow stronger as well , and if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign policy then – that is , a powerful argument in favor of the eu . moreover , russia today is far too weak to threaten them , because the russian army ’s catastrophic misadventures in chechnya demonstrates .
it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and where israel will depend solely on its comparative merits in the eyes of the cynical , realistic actors that judge it merely on their own national interest . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence the major powers . israel ’s leaders seem to be intent , both tactically , on gaining time , by resisting the soft pressure of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiist faith-based faiths , and where israel will be able to rely only on its comparative merits in the eyes of a cynical , realistic actor that is judged solely on its own national interest . but that would presuppose a small gesture toward the palestinians , whom israelis regard as deeply divided between themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement appears possible .
the performer explains that the deficit is all that congressional fault for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the us budget deficit , because “ congress ” can n’t spend the money that it does n’t have is ” . the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically comes later , if and when the president has enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors wo n’t trump ’s reality . that trick never works , either . the audience can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk had disappeared up the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; the acceleration of gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario has vanished ) ; and tax revenue has not grown ( no rabbit in laffer hat ) . the audience is now told that losing tax revenues and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along .
in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to restore a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarity . march 21 is the anniversary of benedict , europe ’s patron saint . for this reason , in january one of us launched the idea that , beginning on march 21 , we are showing the home flag , factories , and offices . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our commitment to unity and our future project : and that symbol is europe ’s banner . march 21 is the first day of the spring , and we would like to believe that europe ’s coming elections will herald a new spring for the european project .
new york – the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the few fortunate survivors . in the united states , right-wing extremists carried out far more assaults than islamists did . according to the global terrorism index 2018 , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has been steadily rising since the 2014 invasion . but there is nothing isolated even about such incidents , either . this fit into a wider trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately classified as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic manner , whereas violent attacks perpetrated in the name of additional ideologies are treated as “ an isolated incident . ”
the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included the european single currency . indisputably , the strongest and most dependable of the 28 member countries , lacks a vision for where beleaguered europe should be headed . after its birth in 1999 , the german government , by now repositioned itself from bonn to berlin , re-contented itself once again with a lower european profile . the intellectual leadership provided by the frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project , is a fading memory , because germany fed a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s outlook and popularity . that modest , unassuming role belongs firmly in the eu , even though german power still has to be matched by imagination .
while the rest of the world struggles to raise saving , china , with a saving rate in excess of 40 % , has struggled to get its people to consume ever more . indeed , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and toward resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate its consumption . but this amounts to a strange arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s war of war against iraq , just as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while massive needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . china has been engaged in what might be called the “ vendor finance , ” ” ” ” providing a cash that helps to finance america ’s vast american fiscal and trade deficits , enabling americans to buy more goods than they sell . providing better social services ( public health care , schooling , and a nation-wide range of retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
selling the five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is regarded as smart marketing , yet lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . but one is clearly less socially acceptable than another . both activities , after all , fund investors looking for returns on their capital and incentives more through a gain than an sympathy for one . a high payout earned through cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer attracts no attention ; one paid to a ceo of a company thriving on lending to the poor seems inscribed , if not immoral . yet pmfis have succeeded by meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or out-performing humans within a fast-growing array of tasks , including some requiring complex cognitive abilities and advanced degrees . that process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse impact on both the quantity and quality of employment has raised serious concerns . among economists , however , the consensus view is that roughly 80 % of job losses in america ’s manufacturing jobs over the past three decades were a result of labor-saving , and benign technological change , with trade approaching a remote second . to listen to president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that us trade will remain the primary reason for manufacturing job losses in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , declared that the potential technological displacement by the us workforce is by no means included in [ the administration ’s ] radar screen .
the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue . and they saw an economy growing substantially faster since reconstruction began after world war ii when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide levels of productivity . they saw an obvious edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic through a wide range of high-tech precision and mass-produced industries that produce tradable goods . berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan was seemingly unable to do as much as it had in economists ’ eyes . they also saw an economy growing considerably more rapidly than north atlantic economies had at the same rate of absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels .
amos oz , one of israel ’s finest known writers , asserts that the current palestinian-israeli war is in fact two wars : the “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine ” ; and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of it . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : the just war to defend its right to exist ; to be accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip , and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war located there . there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extends beyond the pre-1967 borders . the israeli state supports for expanding settlements is substantial . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in just a few 144 settlements , with more than 7,000 settlers in the gaza strip alone , in the 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished palestinian land already suffering one of the world ’s highest population densities .
meanwhile , intra-eurozone financial fragmentation continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers from an apparently irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more visible . but they have now lost their touch ; last year , no matter how secure , they will go wrong . the market ’s reactions were to send the spanish government bond rates even higher . like the aging wizards , they still try the tricks that used to impress , but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will be no easy feat . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration was debating how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . but there are levers here that can help . clinton rejected that counsel : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s neighbors ’ enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more importantly , such a policy would have ensured future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be called “ integrate and insure . ”
the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading . but that identity , and the manner in which its adherents frame their interests , might change , is dynamically generated . farage did not bring about brexit all by himself . trump , for example , has undoubtedly succeeded in persuading some of the american people to see themselves as part of something like the white identity movement . interests and identities , however , are dynamically forming as us politicians are able to offer representation and residents accountable .
these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies to support personalized medicine , as well as the so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness ” options . developing and rewarding staff to possess such abilities will be an additional , but welcome , challenge . though the magnitude of many r & d organizations is legally bound to be reduced through such reforms , the complexities of governance and maximizing the impact of this external-web of interactions will demand new skills and capabilities , over and above those from an excellent science . they will facilitate interactions across their networks , in order to spur the development of innovative ecosystems . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering a bundle of health-care solutions .
so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with better ones , but by expanding its library of models , with each shedding light on another social contingency . the point is not “ to achieve a consensus ” about which model is right ; ” as romer put it , but to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . the social world is different from a physical world because it is man-made , and hence almost infinitely malleable . economics is not the kind of science in which there might ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by substituting old models with better ones , but by expanding its library of models with any shedding light on another social contingency .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have emphasized , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . today , the agricultural sector accounts for just one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market , centered on the relaxation of outdated and complicated employment laws . the legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector far exceed those in most advanced countries , like china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of workers rises . equally important , indian workers , particularly the young , need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china . for starters , brazil ’s government has promoted an “ investment partnership program , ” in order to coordinate investment in the finance and transportation infrastructure industries . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with changes of their own . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors like logistics , power and information systems , and fosters interaction among the business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese financing , credits , and insurance assets to investors .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerated growth in china ’s services-led services sector , one of the critical building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing firm . ultimately , however , the composition of gdp will provide a acid test for whether china has succeeded in the end . it is far too early to expect major shifts in core sources of aggregate demand . for now , it is far more important to look at the trends in would-be determinants of chinese consumption . but a key word here is “ eventually ” .
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape trade policy , so that one ca n’t ignore the possibility that he is pursuing protectionist measures to appease his supporters . likewise , european multinational companies have large stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now stands at nearly double those of america . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based support within the us for a return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has been drifting in the opposite direction . many europeans view trade as an opportunity , rather than a job threat ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism .
at a time when he took the job , manafort had been indebted to russian oligarch oleg deripaska , the aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin to the tune of $ 19 million . manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what had gone on in the trump campaign . like other former russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with the people release it . yet deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual deal with manafort . at a time when he took the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , “ how are we using [ that ] to get whole ” ?
indeed , as my country , ukraine , too , shows today , following the revolutionary euphoria fades and normalcy returns , democratic revolutions can be both betrayed and reversed . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but ukraine ’s first lesson for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make democracy a reality . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , having spearheaded a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , for a regime change is only the first step in the establishment of an islamist-backed democracy .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , a multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and faces ) that affects more than one billion indians . increasingly , we use our fingerprints or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for purchasing , and board airplanes . nandan nandan nilekani , the chairman of the infosys who has left his job to create a system known as aadhaar , credits that it with saving the indian government about $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and misleading identities in governmental recipients lists . protecting against theft is apparent : what use is a phone , a car , or a ticket that works only for its legitimate homeowner ? above all , biometrics can be fed up with the theft of our identities themselves .
the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for a long time to come . pittsburgh , nearly six months ago , at the moment of great alarm in the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders have met to discuss a historic summit in london . anxiety levels may have gone down , board rooms and stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves worldwide . many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain reality .
was we to observing a view of someone with intimate knowledge of the catastrophes that are yet to come ? roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comics of that process , with the us speaking of forces that could stand up to the murky tide of the vulgarity and violence under trump . or was she only the most marvelous girl at the party , the one avid adolescent asked to take france , then held on tightly ? the first is the sovereignists who poured into the streets of every large town in the country with an understanding that in terms of overall votes , they say , rather than trump , who wins the election .
and it is n’t as though congressional republicans seem to think that they owe so much to simpson as to swing a single vote in either chamber of the us legislature . obama officials assured that simpson had , indeed , had a change of heart ; that he was a smart person with a sophisticated grasp of issues ; that he can bully the reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( though he can not sway actual legislators ) ; and that this would be a genuine asset with substantive work to the commission . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important positions of high trust and acclaiming as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation in truly lousy incentives . perhaps he traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he had and who was , repented , and wanted to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that it had caused . perhaps simpson had a different sort of change .
the oecd average is around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , generate less than 1.4 children per woman . on balance , however , the biggest tfr declines in developing countries over the past few years . over the longer term , the population supposedly remains stable if the tfr is at its replacement rate , which is slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and is slightly lower , at 2.1 , for the developed world , which reflects their lower infant-mortality rates . what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average number of live births per woman over her lifetime . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably a bad thing for business , there are actually three important channels through which regulation can benefit an economy . first , many regulations play this standard-setting and the market-growing role illustrated by the standard of gsm . around the world , regulatory approaches implied enormous economies of scale in designing handsets and network hardware , so prices declined precipitously , and interoperability between networks and across countries was far easier to achieve . in fact , many regulations play this standard-setting role . by 2004 , there were more than one billion subscribers to gsm services worldwide .
laguna beach – when i consider the prospects of the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world collectively has cast a giant bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; avoidance of policy errors ; and prevention of market crashes . though all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , unfortunate realities make it far from certain , and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of bet , more inclusive global growth , anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with the annual 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage gains . it also predicts that china ’s annual gdp growth will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to be gradually protected , even as the economy ’s growth engine of growth continues to shift from reliance on exports and public capital spending to domestic consumption and private investment . it is another , more precarious assumption underpinning the bet on more inclusive growth is that both the eurozone and japan are likely to escape the mire of low growth and to avoid deflation that , which , by impelling households and firms to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance .
the two parties allowed the independent attorney ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s advantage a generation later . ultimately , republicans acquiesced in the democrats ’ responsibility that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent counsel whose investigations of hillary clinton ’s real-estate dealings abruptly led him to lewinsky . clinton ’s popularity skyrocketed after the impeachment proceedings ended . the two parties allowed the independent attorney ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a potent form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failing policies . though establishment parties have criticized the eu for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , both major eu parties have backed the “ remain ” campaign , even though they have been split internally . to be sure , establishment leaders have long been trying to salvage their own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but this simply put has ideas for alternate policies out of reach , while causing voters to take direct their resistance against the eu itself .
these challenges are being compounded by new financial regulation in the advanced countries , which , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . in 2010 , brazil , touted as the “ emerging aid player , ” is now mired in economic and political crisis , as it is south africa . to cap it all , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability . weakening developing-economy incomes further is the global demand slowdown and the commodities crash that , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world .
whereas north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it an issue of grave concern . in the event of a regime collapse , a distinct possibility would be difficult to avoid the diversion of its assets , or even the use of its weapons . for its part , iran appears relatively stable , at least relative to its neighbors . whereas pakistan does not experience nuclear disruption , and the authorities insist that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe logjams of instability raise serious questions about its future . pakistan does possess large nuclear weapons program and faces an expansionist jihadi insurgency , which has previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets .
those powers should make it clear that they will not reimpose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures , say , by using access to the dollar clearing system as a foreign-policy tool , would clash with coordinated action . but global momentum for action to address climate change can and must be sustained . above all , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with american foreign policy in ways that some of the devotees of our “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable news . as for climate change , the election of a man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax intended to damage american business clearly is bad news . but this was no us-iran agreement ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and the united nations .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hard-liners with little interest in de-escalation of regional conflicts . paradoxically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran has a new government run against conservatives and hardliners , actually fits in the region better than currently does . this would upend iran ’s reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult . but , with so much at stake in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely toward a reform-oriented pathway , it should be obvious to all that a diplomatic workout with respect to iran is far from complete . of course , the most likely scenario relates to the two dynamics .
in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . ten years later , italy is no longer that imagined the land of prosperous banks and happy savers . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls was seen as pointless . the prolonged recession and economic malaise dented the individual savings rate , while banks no longer had the resources to give the peace of minds to many retail investors whose trust had been badly eroded . the implicit pact between banks and savers was broken in late 2015 , when four troubled local banks were bailed in , and shareholders took that hit .
kwasniewski ’s strategy appealed to large numbers of the young and the middle class , but most of all to peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . many poles remain wary of churchill ’s equivocal stance toward democracy and allergic to his aggressive presence in politics . it is a sorry paradox , indeed , for many ex-communists to deride their church pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . so the man who gave much about the future rode to power saddled with past votes . that link , indeed , will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency .
perhaps the main risk now is that “ aid bureaucracies ” ” ” ” now trip over one another to try to get their hands on $ 20 billion , so that much of a trip is taken up by meetings , expert consultations , overhead , reports , and further meetings . a full consensus has now reached the need for help smallholders , but barriers remain . “ partnership ” of donor governments can become an expensive end in itself , merely delaying genuine action . if donor governments really want results , they should take the money out of the hands of 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , most make sense for the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then have accounts for several billion dollars .
at the new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , particularly the common development bank , which can help mobilize savings among countries . they represent more than one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and nearly half of all foreign-exchange reserves and gold . indeed , the brics countries may be dubbed r-5 , following its members ’ currencies – real , ruble , rupee , renminbi , and rand . currently , the brics countries amount to a free , informal bloc . after all , the brics economies are probably the most critical source of future global growth .
as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs , sentiment , fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . between now and may , cameron needs to persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling rising real incomes . as it stands , the key difference in the uk is that ukip gains ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( above 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rates ) . on the other hand , it must change the conversation , in order to reassure voters that its economic future is bright . as it stands , the british , like their european counterparts , feel overtaxed for spotty public services that are continually busting , are angry that their incomes have been declining for the past five years .
others , like the united states , have not ; and so the unemployment rate remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has made no effort to boost employment . for starters , some countries , china , actually did , in effect , implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . as a result , policies aimed at boosting employment by ending up , say , this calendar year needed to place itself at around a year ago , to have the time to have reached full effect . it is subject to what milton friedman called a long and variable lags .
imposing trade defenses against such goods , however legally warranted , is likely not directed toward anti-competitive business practices . many argue that these problems are the price to pay for ensuring that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . for more advanced goods , the eu value-added content added ( if an intangible part of the production process gets embedded in european production activities ) is pretty high . sectors with higher levels of human capital content , such as electronic consumer goods , for example , have far higher r & d costs than the shoe sector , so that manufacturing such goods on the assembly line are probably not very costly when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . but , even when the measures worked as intended , most trade defense measures are probably not directed at anti-competitive business practices .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is an even harder challenge . after all , there is no conscience for corporations ; it is only the conscience of those running the us company ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profit . firms are in far better shape than consumers to assess their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that our legal system has provided corporations with an incentive to pay attention to the safety of what they produce . after all , corporations are not without a conscience ; they are just the conscience of those running the us company ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profit . america ’s legal system makes it certain that firms that produce a defective and especially unsafe product tend to be liable for the consequences .
the case for acting on a massive scale to combat climate change was floated in europe , and even in the us . is this because those who oppose such a discussion are rejecting climate-change science ? or do they deny science , because accepting that would legitimize an economically activist state ? why has such a small discussion arisen ? we need not look far enough to do so .
well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that are seeking to slither around and through some practical issues , while deferring on others . enlargement is the most important item on europe ’s agenda , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone , there . forgotten all of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises that have been reached by eu heads of state and government that attempt to slither around and through certain practical problems , while delaying others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important , because it contains among the many other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and power sharing among eu institutions that must be firm in advance before the union can admit to new members . once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the nice treaty .
with the proverbial advantage ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that have arisen over the past half-century have been little understood and infrequent ( if ever ) predicted by economists . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies began to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the underlying causes of asian poverty and explains why its poverty appeared to be ineradicable . after beggaring their adherents , these policies today seem utterly discredited . the key point here is not just that economists got so much wrong . simultaneous to this point , a powerful consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import-substitution policies then pursued by countries like india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey .
but wade postponed legislative elections originally scheduled for june 2006 , first in june 2007 , and later through presidential decree , to june 2007 . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties was brutally repressed by the army , as well as by three us presidential candidates for the day . two weeks ago , almost daily debate about the possibility of a us presidential election was shelved indefinitely . a month before the election , however , only 64 % of citizens who had registered held their voting cards . it now appears that a presidential election is expected , but is fair ?
princeton , nexus – the intersection of genetics and intelligence is intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched off one blow in 2005 , when he tentatively hinted at a major genetic explanation for the problems that his university has had in recruiting female professors in math and in physics . now one of our time ’s most eminent scientists has blundered far more clumsily in the same minefield , with predictable results . ( suggesting that men are on the average more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely than women to be able to find out at both the up-and-down spectrum of abilities in those fields , and harvard , to be sure , only appoints people at the extreme upper end . ) in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for describing his dna structure , had been in london to encourage his memoir , boring human , and other lessons from the life sciences .
zimbabwe ’s leaders have made the most of their visits to the press for trade and military cooperation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms . by contrast , kenyan presidents traveled to china only six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current president , xi jinping , was visiting zimbabwe in 2015 . mugabe ’s first-ever visit to china in 1980 came after independence ; he committed 13 more during his tenure ; and the high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials have been even more frequent , showing roughly once every two years since mugabe ’s reign . state visits in the us have been more uneven .
geneva , the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . of the 17.2 million people estimated to be the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) are responsible for the protection , roughly half are under the age of 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childbearing , could lose out , at least as well . but , for young refugees missing out on an education , a crisis can also be tracked with an irreversible metric : the passage of time . school-age children form a large share of the world ’s displaced population . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees were experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : fleeing their homes for more than five years , and have no “ immediate prospects ” to return .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stem the stock-market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stem the fed ’s own housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground , and the pleads does n’t to be guilty . but how serious is these misguided policy-crimes to which greenspan now pleads guilty ? in my view , they are misdemeanors . against them , you have to set up what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ dublin ” performance at the end of the 1990 ’s , and minimizing recessions during his fed years .
those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving the women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christianity and arab democrats , and urging , of course , to see just “ peace ” between the israelis and the palestinians . it is a campaign whose instigators have had no purpose other than indiscriminate attacks , de-legitimizing , and vilify israel that in their minds never stopped wearing its yellow star . the truth is that the bds movement is anything but a sinister caricature of anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . to the activists of good faith who may have been out of step in duplicating the movement ’s duplicitous representations , i would have said only that there are too many lofty causes in need of assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted in a questionable way . and it is better to know that history should we wish to avoid repeating its ugliest minor scenes .
more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in mice into scans regressing to his immature state , forming stem cells . earlier this year , stem cells that can potentially be reprogrammed to develop in replacements for lost or damaged tissue might have gotten only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . before that , stem cells that can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue might have gotten only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . indeed , the nobel prize in medicine , however , was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cell cells without altering their genetic constructions . it is too soon to discount genetics , but , since the science of “ epigenetics ” ” – the study of mechanisms to convert genes on and off , thereby altering the path of cell develops without altering their genetic code – is gaining traction .
the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed effectively . but we need not wait until the root causes of the displacement , state failure , and civil war are addressed . the financial costs of patrolling its waters , and to rescuing those adrift , are exorbitant . the loss of life is inexcusable , at best . claims could be prioritized and processed in periodic ways , and refugees could arrive at european healthy , ready to work or study .
according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , accounting for 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s average annual growth rate skyrocketed to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer advantage implied by the income gap between the four nies and japan enabled the japanese to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % for 20 years , china ’s ’s ’s annual growth potential should be equivalent to 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address a variety of structural problems , and develop its economy according to its comparative advantages . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the united states and japan enabled the nies on average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % in singapore and 9.2 % for 20 years , four economies that are also among america ’s 13 successful economies studied .
unfortunately , like so many other international agreements on biological diversity , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknown , unchampioned , and unmet . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went even further , committing to “ “ “ “ “ “ a significant ” reduction ” of the current rate of loss of biodiversity ” ” by 2010 . the signatories agreed to maintain biological diversity , by rescuing species and their habitats , as well as using biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains basically unknown , unchampioned , and unmet . in fact , in march 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went even further , committing to “ “ a significant reduction in ” the present rate of biodiversity loss ” ” ” by 2010 .
in netanyahu ’s view , resolving the palestinian problem wo n’t remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of this existential threat that paves the way for the creation of a palestinian state . it remains to be seen whether the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state operatives in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will respond to obama ’s anticipating . it is because netanyahu is driven by a almost messianic determination to stop iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that might be amenable to a fundamental change of its position on palestine , provided obama makes visible headway at his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , the chairman of america ’s senate foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is not a single way street ” in which the onus is falling entirely on israel .
so we decided last year to figure out whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether it was in the wake of the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets became more negative . we administered the identical questionnaire in the two world cities back in 2015 . but there was a big surprise : new york , represented by virtually identical scores ( 68 % thought it was unjust ) . we administered results at the american economic association ( nafta ) in 2015 . just as imf economists were predicting , most ( 66 % ) of those responding to this question in moscow thought it was unjust .
like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether and when they do not bail out southern “ emerging-market economies ” . in an earlier era , interest rates converge and a default risk nil , owing to the ecb ’s backstops of its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the america , europe becomes a “ local currency . ” and how often are we to hear about the sovereign settling of the local-currency debt ? the prognoses for each case today are starkly different . in spain , interest rates converge , and default risk is nil because , with the ecb eventually keeping its members ’ liabilities low , as the us federal reserve does , europe becomes a “ local currency . ”
during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in the american district and circuit courts were filled down to its lowest point in more than 50 years . republican obstructionism in the us senate has also placed other degrees in the federal judiciary . in the 5-4 majority vote , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” ” and therefore that any limits on the amount of money corporations might be able to spend on a political campaign violated their first amendment with freedom of expression . that majority can erode democratic checks , like campaign-finance limits , which have been dealt a devastating blow to the citizens of united states in 2010 . thus , republicans have a good chance to forge a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which could last for decades , particularly if they win the presidency again in 2020 .
whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the type of populist rule we have seen in venezuela and bolivia . lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work ruthlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his government . calderon ’s task will not be easy , but neither will they be easy . the underlying stability underpinning mexico ’s post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america .
there will be a new german government , the european parliament elections this year , and a new one by the end of the year . nobody wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ ’ disaffection . there is still time to react , by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but that time is restricted , and the clock is ticking down . next year will be critical , to mark the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . it is here that political leaders should dedicate their effort .
colombo , as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to contain their economies on an upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i am premier , the challenge is to find ways to accelerate our already steady rate of economic growth . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic aspirations the way that it once opened its arms to china , ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or , in its earlier decades , cheered on by the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on a nearly daily basis , fierce political convulsions of the tools and policies that have helped to lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
more than a hundred adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others joined their ranks . here , too , is where sunni-shiite cooperation appears in question . this supra-sectarian platform urges the central government of iraq ’s natural resources and the postponement of the looming referendum to settle the status of a city of kirkuk . more than a hundred adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others joined their ranks . here , here , too , is noteworthy .
yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state ( they are not there alone ) . so the truth needs to lie elsewhere : the french are n’t hopeless at politics ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader to choose . so the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated europe or a boundless world . political fervor , it seems , was not vanished across the spectrum of rousseau and danton . the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless at politics ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader .
failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty as a result of more frequent , intense , and protracted drought , flooding , and storms . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . the warsaw talks are a staging post on the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that avoids a dangerous disaster defined as global warming of more than two degrees fahrenheit . but that need not be true : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change , the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectation and ambitions running at an all-time low .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ infrastructure choices must be made to ease , rather than exacerbate , this state of affairs . ” and , indeed , the g20 has placed few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria into the “ wish list ” ” of mega-projects that each member country is submitting to its summit in turkey in november . “ every year we are already consuming some of the same half of the planets to natural resources , ” ” ” the authors explained . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change specialized that “ infrastructure development , ” and the long-lived products that lock societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive emissions paths , can be either difficult or extremely costly to change .
perhaps the fed ’s most telling recent example , using forward guidance effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . though the impact of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed with the extra data , there are many arguments in its favor . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term nominal interest rates . for example , the fed has pledged to keep interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , a move that has arguably pushed down long-term borrowing costs . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries .
but iranians have diplomacy with other members of its primary interlocutor in talks on its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , japan , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and rebuilding iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten the lines in communications and lock down 1979-1981 ’s 444-chapter day . this would not be an easy process , and it might well satisfy considerable iranian resistance . indeed , just the opposite response will probably be the case , with efforts to tighten sanctions further . first , the american people should view the creation of diplomatic relations with iran as well as the deployment of diplomats on the ground . yet , just as the us has adopted a “ “ bomb ” and speaks ” approach with serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be willing to “ sanction ” and talking about when it comes to iran , thereby creating more space for its eventual diplomatic strategy .
anyone watching the ipl , however tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of the game , is actually the american game intentionally rediscovered by indians . other countries followed suit , with the ipl tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . here was the venture , which opened new vistas for businesses and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate india ’s entrepreneurial energies that had produced economic stagnation earlier in the year . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the sports league ; it signaled nothing less than india ’s emergence .
this superficiality results from the fact that , although communism was an entirely “ modern ” idea , modernity in romania goes on only skin deep . at its 20th century close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) looks more like an “ neo-feudal ” state than a modern society . for here is a state where groups , classes , even individuals struggle for privileges that go , based not on talent and work , but rather on the status of a group in which one belongs . this superficiality results from the fact that , although communism was a totally “ modern ” idea , modernity in romania goes on only skin deep . at its june 19 th century , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and the other great sovietized societies ) looks more like " neo-feudal " the state than the modern society .
in may 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees . on the other hand , a diplomatic means might bring about the release of an israeli soldier and put a stop to the firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel , the daily occurrence that challenged the new israeli government ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert . in 1947 , they rejected the united nations partition plan , which called for the two states ’ establishments in british palestine . it was this failure that incited hamas . but the fundamental problem is that so far , at every historical juncture , palestinians refused to accept a compromise and , consequently , failed in nation-building .
for example , japanese elites typically favor continuity over change . in their minds , hard power in the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an american “ bound to lead ” has been largely unchanged . in asia , indonesia might look “ europe ” in its obama craze , but it essentially constitutes an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a majority of asian elites await the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . for them , america ’s elites typically favor continuity over change .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s ’s ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump hurled kindergarten insults at each other , “ rocket man is again within a suicidal mission , ” ” ” trump told kim of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” kim retorted , while threatening to sweep east asia into a post-atomic iran . but optimism about that turn of events has to be tempered by cautious realism . kim supposedly is willing to denuclearize and aspiring to “ speak directly ” to trump . north korea is the nuclear issue out of whomever , so if it is to change the world . but optimism about that turn of events must be tempered by cautious realism .
despite its domestic problems and the loss of the global visibility accompanying mandela ’s retirement , south africa continues to be perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . nepad , a new partnership for africa ’s development , aspires to much more than the middle-power status and the limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . such powers seek an efficient and constructive regional role , and possibly also , in some cases , a global one . nepad , africa ’s new partnership for development , aspires to much more than middle-power status and the limited niche-style influence that canada , sweden , or saudi arabia have embraced . in fact , south africa seeks an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps also , in some instances , a global one .
indeed , turkey never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional power . this year , as the american-led effort to mediate the middle east peace settlement began to falter , turkey took over the mediator ’s job in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the arab-israeli conflict . immediately following the collapse of the soviet union , turkey suggested the black sea of economic cooperation . it aspires to join the european union , bringing the eu into our three borders , even as the us also sought to join a single day . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgia crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward again to assume a leadership role within the caucasus .
as neighboring countries , india would face troubling consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which did not sit down idly by as long as sectarian strife and intensified the shia have become targets of a resurgent taliban . indeed , across the region , apprehension is growing that once foreign troops leave , afghanistan once again plow into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back into power . that is why , “ bringing the soldiers back home ” into power in afghanistan would become the prime objective of western policymakers who are participating in the region . my fear is that the us has not seen the recent failure of al qaeda or the taliban . what is needed is the west ’s withdrawal before bloodletting starts again in earnest .
an economy with neither bankruptcies , nor the rule of law that applies equally to all are no market economy . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ borrowing by lending to non-financial corporations , just as private purchasers of currency-issuing , fixed-term , and saving-capital deposits , by reforming insolvent laws . and governments must respond accordingly to the threat posed by their willingness to allow insolvent banks to be judged accordingly . a market economy needs to rest on an economic principle of profit and loss if it is to be paid . a law that applies to every other corporation should apply to banks as well .
but the gross capital outflow is from emerging-market markets to emerging-market equities , through large banks now implicitly backed by the state in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , “ too big to fail ” banks that are “ too big to park their reserves ” is the perfect places to park their reserves , as long as the sovereign in question remains solvent . but what will these banks do with money ? that was not a good idea , because it led to the 1982 debt crisis . when a similar issued in the 1970s emerged , the so-called “ recycling ” of oil surpluses , banks in western financial centers expanded their lending to latin america , slovakia , poland , and slovakia .
but plagues of transition are more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . so set aside the fact that these illnesses are infectious , and can easily spread , or can the notion that the fortunate is bearing some of the moral responsibility for the well-being of the poor and the sick , instead merely weigh the economic consequences of the plagues of the transition . in south africa , companies stagger from the loss of so many workers to aids . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost menace of african development . ” when it does , the disease , the desperation , and death rush provide it .
but while this would amount to a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic mistakes sooner . turkey ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the single source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet the agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation – which may not have happened , an outcome that has made the coup attempt all the more likely . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu both hash out contentious issues , are so critical . turkey insists that a visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should be delivered this year .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years or so , netanyahu has enthusiastically endorsed the extension of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state , there will be a conflict . we should take him at his word , and we should pick for another time . moreover , during the recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that if he were re-elected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state within the west bank by “ controlling the whole region . ”
but such reforms went precisely the opposite of today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policy makers ’ discretionary powers , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new york fed , all to enable the federal reserve system to respond more quickly and robustly in a depression . in view of such ineptitude , it was not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender was enabled by the failure of the banking system to collapse . it failed to stop money-supply contracting in the early stages of the great depression .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page news that monetary-policy “ doves , ” who had forecast low inflation in the united states , had gotten the better of the “ hawks , ” ” ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) at the end of the century were going to unleash more rapid price growth . the report was right but misleading , for it failure to mention why there is so little inflation around the american economy today . were the doves right or just the doves ? the american federal reserve board has pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but never have that many of the reserves produced so little monetary growth .
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births as a result of lower newborn deaths and 500,000 children deaths annually . furthermore , slashing birth rates , which are extremely high in many lmics , would help to lessen the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn care and immunization . that is not only good for mothers ; it is bad news for family planning as well . by reducing the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the death toll from unsafe abortions . likewise , by reducing rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions .
the saudis also recoiling under a barrage of criticism from their wahhabi brand of islam that is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray – but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently gives a lot of power . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record , including the denial of elementary rights for women , is under continuous scrutiny . like the defense minister , mohammad moved the saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing an pro-iranian military war in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record , including the denial of elementary rights for women , is under constant scrutiny .
america ’s ongoing peace talks with the taliban , and the impending reductions of america ’s military presence in the country , provide a stark acknowledgement of this . the american public is war-weary and us president donald trump is keen to declare an end to america ’s longest international conflict in us history prior to the 2020 presidential election . the response to the first question is both yes and no . back then , the us achieved many of its initial core goals . the us failed to eliminate the taliban from afghanistan entirely and effectively exclude the possibility that once again the country became a haven for terrorists .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the un . one useful tool at the effort is “ infrascope , ” ” ” ” ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence unit that assesses emerging-market capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . emerging-market officials will earn accreditation , by showing the capacity to apply their knowledge practically practically . the ebrd aims to support training a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that certification could become just as the site of a chartered financial analyst , or member of a project management institute . emerging-market leaders , for their part , had plenty of experts ; some 300 from the public and private sector of 30 countries ; attempting to provide a response to a straightforward question : just as what could it possibly take to double private-sector investment in emerging markets ?
american efforts , led by the special envoy , george mitchell , have shown that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimum required for a peace . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements within the occupied territories , in total violation of international law , and with the minimal peace requirements that are detailed in a “ “ sponsored by the quartet ” roadmap ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . the obama administration has staked its reputation on getting the israelis and palestinians to agree , at least in terms of security and border . the results are mixed , at best . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security requirements , whereas binyamin netanyahu ’s an israeli government that gives lip-service to the two-state solution has so far been a elucidate that israel ’s borders will become .
it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign lenders . then came the contagion sets in as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term developed-country investors , begin to withdraw funds from other countries to cover the losses they incurred in the distressed economies of which the crises had caught on . with this in mind , crisis spills over borders , affecting entire regions , or even the whole class of emerging-market economies . that is exactly what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt-servicing measures in august 1982 sparked a region-wide debt crisis . the same occurred throughout east asia in the 1990s : crises began in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , and quickly spread to other east asian countries .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior imf staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming that it does not contribute to economic growth . but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . over the past decade , the joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative , and nato – the added initiative for multilateral debt relief – has made substantial progress toward debt sustainability . but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average financing for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary elections for the 2012 us presidential vote – which will , alas , continue to rage in this summer – need to offer an awesome display of what americans and their leaders do n’t know about foreign policy . when jon huntsman ’s huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by making a few useful points about dealing with china , punctuated by a concise display of his own mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . indeed , ignorance appears to be the source of strength for candidates still in the race . to have even known the chinese perspective seems to have been disqualifying for huntsman , who ended his candidacy . debate after debate reveals the fact that neither side with candidates seeking to challenge president barack obama is especially keen on the details of any american ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those that do n’t involve us troops .
the agenda includes creating better school grants , connecting schools to police stations through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to support safe zones for education . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community intervention , with special measures for the most at-risk children in nigeria , nigeria , last april . the first set of schools has now received funding , and the first cohort of the most at-risk girls has moved to government schools in safer regions of the country . i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in santiago , nigeria , last april . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund was established at the un .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . they must also address the harm of the people and the livelihoods of the us that climate change is already causing . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . luxembourg , as world leaders assemble in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) , they must address more than future targets to cut greenhouse-gas emissions .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong growth in 2011 , with higher-output , employment , and incomes leading to a further rise in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not materialize . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced that of nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to drop out of january , while the subsequent decline in home prices lowered the wealth of households . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just around 1 % in january , down from an earlier quarter of the year . a one-year cut in the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in that favorable outlook .
instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to align people with the jobs that they will need to remain consumers . likewise , toyota “ has built its own advanced manufacturing technician ” program to provide a pathway for graduate students seeking careers at the company . for example , it highlights miami dade university ’s “ home animation ” programs in animation and game development , working with companies like the pixar studios and google . again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . on education , the report urges employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ “ pipelines ” .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year , the united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing starvation actually rises , as does the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the effects of climate change emerge far more quickly than was predicted .
these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge sharing among municipalities that are laying the foundation for further progress . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion to that goal by 2020 , contributing one another to its economy ’s growth . south australia , meanwhile , has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enabling the rise of renewables ’ ’ share in power generation from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today . the basque country has established a program called local agenda 21 , designed to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region . as a result of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such schemes , consisting of over 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development .
in a desperate effort to do something – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposed “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures because they did little to arrest a downward spiral of falling output and prices . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended their gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries joining the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in the 1930s , the countries raising their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the smallest capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , those that remained on the gold standard . they were doing nothing to stabilizing rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . its palestinian counterparts are hardly at a better time . hostage of an impossible coalition , and of a settlement movement of free-fringe fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s administration is severely at risk . moreover , the palestinian authority ( pa ) has come neither to represent the palestinians nor to govern through democratic means . today , the pa , which surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas , embodies the bitter deception that the peace process begun with the oslo agreements meant for the palestinians .
countries experiencing high and rising economic inequality often face political instability and political dysfunction . yet government intervention is critical to addressing the problems facing developed-country workers today that markets can not address on their own . as policymaking becomes erratic , lose credibility , and become choked by gridlock , growth suffers , and the chance to achieve a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . the result is a vicious circle , in which government finds it increasingly difficult to do whatever it takes . this has fueled growing sense of hopelessness , particularly among men – manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated by health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while the arsenal was “ “ iranian . ” but a collective race or religion is not fundamental . the tribe can be the club , the clan , or the nation . the vestiges of these markings remain : the ajax of amsterdam still taunted by provincial antagonists as the “ jew club . ” and the glasgow clubs , the celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliations , celtic being catholic and rangers .
the world bank could help to improve accountability for meeting this commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on the pace at which disparities in key indices , from mortality to education , are being narrowed . in a new report to begin at the imf-world bank annual meeting , save children documents a glaring gap between health risks being heavily skewed toward the poorest children , and the benefits of public spending are often skewed toward better-off households . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” this flies in the face of a central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries farthest from the targets would actually benefit from the quickest progress . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ”
kim jong-il was greeted with similarly fervor when he entered the opera house , which today marks the public mourning of his death . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while power consumption is down more than two-thirds since two decades ago . kim jong-il was greeted by the same fervor when he entered the opera house that today marks the public mourning of his death . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice ’s home prices have tripled , while electricity consumption is down more than two-thirds from their peak in early 2008 . in april 2002 , kim jong-il made a rather optimistic moment .
in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paid back-office jobs have visited randomly selected villages over a period of more than three years . female employment has risen , and women between 15 and 21 % have been less likely to marry or to give birth over that period . but there are other gender goals that must be considered . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be filled with fully and equal members of society to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . such far-reaching change is no easy way to accomplish this , but if girls can stay in school longer and have decent job opportunities available after graduating , they are likely to marry and bear children later .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , us vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that unless north korea makes a deal , it would indeed be met with libya ’s fate . the “ world ” knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor the iraq that have met the miserable fates . the north had no interest in a dialogue centered on a coerced dialogue . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan had delivered the north with an angry reaction : “ “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” choe son hui , the vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” should washington be allowed to drag down to libya ’s fate .
but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later must end . with the current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is up rising fast . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , about one-third of today ’s levels at current price , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the result was a precipitous fall in the value of the us dollar , which had depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated by a brief growth slowdown of 2000-2001 – the united states amassed a massive stock of foreign liabilities equal to about 25 % of its gdp .
princeton – the united states has moved from the height of the presidential election to the low turnout scandal in just a short week . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election and petraeus ’s resignation subsides the bigger picture : an america that lives up to its promises . for many americans , the election demonstrated what was best about the country , only to be followed by the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off its pedestals . the election was reminded by many americans that the american is a country committed to , and able to drive forward , a drive forward toward an ideal vision .
in fact , one key reason for forming the international monetary fund has been to monitor exchange-rate movements with the explicit objective of curtailing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . the first casualty would be whatever small remit it makes for international policy coordination . that is why the swiss move came as a surprise . the latter would be the world international monetary system ; we need it . it is true that the franc appreciated by 8 % in real terms since the onset of the crisis in august 2007 .
likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , coupled with its cozying up to russia has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record low , and gdp has grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . a call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in thuringia , for a “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the nazi era ’s crimes , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing ” germany ’s turkish integration minister david cameron in anatolia , ” repelled voters . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is an obvious reason why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere has won little traction in germany . likewise , die linke linke ’s call to abolish nato , coupled with its cozying up to russia .
massive fines have been levied on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of journalists , have ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishing individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and disinformation , which “ disrespects ” the state . us president donald trump is trying to move in the same direction . his steady branding of journalists as “ liars , ” and the “ enemies of the people , ” is echoing the nazis ’ preferred media label : lügenpresse ( a lying press ) .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa ’s struggles over subsistence level . blair ’s africa commission , like the un ’s millennium project , has found that africa needs around $ 50 billion a year in aid until at least 2010 . yet official us aid to africa amounts to just $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers salaries for american consultants , rather than investing in africa in ’s needs . blair ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , found that africa needs around $ 50 billion a year in aid until 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total is roughly $ 15 billion a year .
how the world responds to north korea is likely to influence the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . indeed , how the world responds to north korea today is likely to have a major impact on the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . the danger now is that the us may fast approaching a tipping point . early reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) at the united nations security council resolution 1718 , which condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a wide array of military , political , and economic sanctions . sustaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers play on the nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the implications of failure far more destructive .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will head of the us national trade council , a new white house policy store to be established on a par with the us national security council and the us national economic council . ross and navarro were also co-authors of an economic-policy ranking paper published on the trump administration ’s web site stretching any element of credibility . the industrialist wilbur ross , us commerce secretary-designate , was vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s ’s “ dumb ” ” trade deals . moreover , navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks . the titles of his two most recent books , china ’s death ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what china does mean for the world ( 2015 ) , speak volumes about its tabloid-level biases .
the euro-dollar exchange rate thus moved barely ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . as a result , the euro-dollar exchange rate barely shifted ; indeed , the euro appreciated against the currencies of the major currencies . as a result , eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored from monetary-policy decisions . ” the clash of interests among the eurozone ’s member states is straightforward . but , because policymakers repeatedly threatened to end qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to continuing stimulus .
american antitrust law , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general augusto pinochet , resulted in just six criminal prosecution in 30 years . in many cases , however , these imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or respected according to only six criminal prosecutions in 30 years . experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works fine . even after european ’s empires retreated , laws were always exported to foster development in post-colonial countries . for centuries , western legal codes came with colonial rulers .
this new development , called the pharmacogenetics , aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective treatments . drug companies and other firms may well be eager to buy biobanks on which they may test their products for differential reactions , according to their patients ’ genetic make-up . but other firms have been blamed for having more to do with developing a “ biobank ” ” of samples and data than with genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as the traditional newspapers ’ business model is to get revenues not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomic companies see potential profits not from the consumers themselves , but from compiled databases – perhaps in the form of a sales approach – to them . there is certainly nothing wrong with this , but at least curiously , customers are effectively paying the company for the privilege of donating their dna to its database .
the question is whether a coupons change , perhaps coupled with an extension of maturities , would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . and , with the face value of a debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger . european banks holding greek sovereign debt might keep pretending that it is worth paying for its full value . even with a chilean interest rate , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still being at a fairly large rate and far from today ’s deficit . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to reject greek bonds as collateral .
on this front , “ neoliberal ” reforms such as the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . the combination of social polarization , insufficient institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it more difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . after all , current-account deficits have been growing , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises . venezuela is a case in point . its combination of excessive fiscal and monetary expansion has left these economies fragile .
in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to consumers ’ tastes that shifts can spell out changes in the company almost instantly . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography were originally imagined that a better quality video would have made their product more desirable . nevertheless , high levels of production seem to have been genuinely much less popular . movies produced for consumer sexual gratification reveal cultural norms about limits , transgression , and otherness . so a “ casual ” producing style has been adopted , similar to the designs of muzzled and dilapidness .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done , and so far , on the other hand . clowns have always played a part in politics . but he never aspired to run a country . neither the clown , nor the tycoon , is well suited to be a democratic leader . the question is which all the worse .
one such project , the fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , still rolling out low-rent social housing that was then allocated to the poor . if they price out , or otherwise exclude those who are earning less , they will end up sacrificing the openness that has made them appealing first . so , if they just want to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , they will have to come up with bold solutions . one such project , fuggerei ’s complicated in augsburg , germany , still providing low-rent social housing to this day . at long last , the city and city territories that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke counter-movement .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the beginning of the twentieth century , did not pander to the nearly half of the electorate ’s electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , got exiled at the time . nor did charles de gaulle , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré tell the communists at the beginning of the twentieth century , did n’t pander to the almost half of the voters that , during the dreyfus affair , had exiled themselves . nor did pierre mendès , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the start of the twentieth century , pander to the almost understanding of them . france now needs to recall those great times in its republican tradition and uphold them as a model for today ’s leaders .
but , after the cold war , many assumed that its institutional incarnation , the north atlantic treaty organization , would fade away . it was not because , after the cold war , many assumed that its institutional incarnation , the north atlantic treaty organization , would fade away . it could no longer fade away than our desire for freedom might wane . that bond remained vital to maintaining our values and our security . and we know that those landings formed a unique partnership between our continents .
i am hopeful that this issue does not derail china ’s efforts to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their country has emerged again as one of the world ’s great leaders . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the framework of a chinese state ? the chinese have been so smart in so many fields , including the us . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its own cultural and religious autonomy within the framework of a chinese state ? they have devised a “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . in the uk , voters have been asked to respond to an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries have been passed on to irresponsible electorates and to radical activists . since then , calls have been growing louder than ever , the “ gatekeepers ” have emerged , a polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should keep as many as possible . sarajevo , ever since the double disaster of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election has shown widespread anxieties about a “ global wave ” of populism , and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy .
berkeley – in order to fix the problem , it is not enough to know what to do about it . indeed , you need to implement the solution , and be willing to change course , as long as you do not seem to know much like you thought you did . his starting point is the massive build-up of wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and consequent pressures to the people , governments , and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of debt . that is the message of the two most recent books , which by mit ’s conservative british journalist martin wolf , begins by cataloguing the big shifts that set the stage for an economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . that is the message of the two most recent books , which tell you all that you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what could be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things did so still .
this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic norms of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . the second feature of the age of digital information , the direct by-product of democratization , is information socialization . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer rooted in a shared set of facts . this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic norms of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . rather than receive our information directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial norms , today we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing .
robert putnam , america ’s leading scholar ’s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation of declining “ social capital , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the “ trust that binds communities together . to be sure , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization ought not to be understated . americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago . the time that a community used to spend together is now spending alone in comparison with a screen . moreover , heavy tv viewing has contributed to social fragmentation .
lurking behind china ’s ambitions in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the inner circles of the army ’s high command , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . but , since the 1980 ’s , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space effort . it flatly contradicts china ’s repeated assurances about its leaders that , as a global power , china ’s rise will simply bring “ harmony ” and peaceful existence into the international community . with the collapse of the former soviet communist regime , the us continues to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . in fact , this dangerous , irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will become a peaceful nation once it grows strong .
distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny “ inscribed ” of dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything supposedly reside in our genes . today , it is the turn of molecular genetics , and it has to navigate the era of abusive claims . illegality and wrongs have been artfully cloaked as incontrovertible , science fiction , “ the survival of the fittest . ” every time a new , powerful scientific formulation seems to be going through a period of abusive app .
lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , it hosts a alpha jazz festival , sponsored by a russian bank . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine matters strategically to the west . around its picturesque squares include every cobblestone and the ornamental façade borne by silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied the rise of empires and fall . at a time when russia and ukraine still remain very large in war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians pack the streets of rashid to celebrate world-class jazz . lviv are also where one can find hope for europe 's promise .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact on implementing and designing policies , but a tentative read indicates limited short-run benefits at large long-run costs . several months later , only 4 % of gdp was spent , and the federal government is brow-beating state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small pay cut to some unionized employees or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . obama outsourced the details of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress and , no surprise , old-school barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce the union ’s demands is the emerging characteristic of the administration ) . the administration is exploiting the crisis atmosphere to enact a massive agenda that would re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to healthcare , energy , and income distribution .
moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever talks about upholding the postwar liberal international order . instead , it regards the world as the zero-sum strategic competition in which the us should look beyond itself . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflict with one another , all-out war risks would increase substantially . as europeans well know , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . to be sure , the us claims to be stepping up its commitment to european security .
the american consumer , meanwhile , benefited enormously from the declining relative prices of manufactured goods in america ’s tradable side . china ’s growth was fueled by labor-intensive exports , which made it more competitive by technology transfers and knowledge from america ’s us and other western countries . that , in turn , america ’s employment shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn fostering higher incomes in america ’s tradable side as well . the old model served the two sides well over the next three decades as well . this , in turn , america ’s employment shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting america ’s higher incomes , too .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . this is not the first time that nato seemed to be on its final legs . then came trump , whose administration withdrew the rug from under europe ’s legs , abandoned american leadership under a rules-based international system , pursuing a nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . then came trump , whose administration withdrew the rug from under europe , abandoned american leadership within that rules-based international system , pursuing a unilateralist , liberal , and unilateralist , foreign policy . many had arrived on the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus beyond its eu mission in afghanistan .
as a result , america ’s federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and probably to push up short – and with long-term interest rates just like the american dollar . at the same time , the american federal reserve will raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and that will likely push up short – and long-term interest rates just like the american dollar . meanwhile , inflation is rising in other key economies as well , with rising oil prices contributing to additional inflationary pressures . by 2020 , the stimulus is running out , and a modest fiscal drag is pulling the growth rate from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . by 2020 , the stimulus is running out , with america ’s modest fiscal drag pulling the growth rate above its 2 % potential .
this is because the desert in the region normally gets a crust , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sandwiched and clay particles that baked together , or koltered , through heat and sun . in fact , american and british troops may have only themselves to blame for them . indeed , american and british soldiers may find themselves with only themselves at fault . at times , this crust is strong enough to conduct a person , and sometimes not , above all the hard ice crust that develops on colder climates . under the crust , sand particles are loose .
other women , like his self-proclaimed mistreh fecklessness , had supposedly had sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . this reconsideration of the male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960 ’s occurred in other arenas just as well , reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation from charming playboy to the dangerously compulsive predator . similarly , the series “ enraged men , ” with their dashing advertising executives consuming women like the lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness , and the destructiveness of early-1960 ’s ’s ’s ’s male sexual prerogative . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has exhibited the agony and suffering of political spouses , who are expected to keep a rigid upper lip , and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . a popular series of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has eroded steadily since , a process that , like so many in american culture , has played out on television .
oddly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and ltcm , roughly 2 % of banks ’ total lending and credit exposure to just the same hedge fund ! the banks that had loaned enormous sums , mostly uninsured , to ltcm , the same man that entered about $ 175 billion of short-term loans to the five east asian developing nations ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , then abruptly reversed gear , and yanked tens of billions of billions of dollars in loans around 1997 and 1998 . ltcm also illustrates some of the truths about financial market crises . when the push came to the shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve has not simply allowed “ market forces ” to take their course . one important fact about the past year is that financial-market problems lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks that are showing uncanny ’s ability to create difficulty by excessively risky gamblers , whether in credit to emerging markets , or the likes of ltcm .
cambridge – public-private cooperation , or coordination , has received considerable attention nowadays . indeed , even the world economic forum has been transformed over the course of “ the last 250 years ” into an international organization for public-private cooperation . a plethora of centers for business and government learning has been created , with researchers producing great literature on design , analysis , and assessment of public-private partnership partnerships . while adam smith erupted in the us with the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would attend to most coordination issues , in intervening periods , economists were able to discover all kinds of market failure , informational imperfections , and an incentive problem that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal intervention . of course , private-private coordination was the essence of economics for the last 250 years .
for starters , a wide range of studies , from the work of the late economist david landes to the more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james robinson find that institutions and political culture are one of the single most important determinants of long-term growth . the president-elect of ivanka trump is spearheading the effort . but while the trump administration has consolidated america ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger makes it rather bleak . recovery from damaging trump is inflicting on institutions and political culture in the us may take years ; if it does , the cost could be substantial . for starters , making it easy to be cynical ( some might say that a new agenda is only an excuse to cut funding from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is good .
most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at rates well above 2 % without another sustained burst of rising oil prices . but with 2 % growth ( the respectable pace of the advanced economy ) , it would represent a severe blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , potentially threatening domestic stability if jobs disappear in critical manufacturing industries . putin is confusing about how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth . his primary proposal so far has been the “ eurasian union , ” an expanded version of the current customs union , among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . that would provide a platform to reestablish trade , transportation , and other links among the former soviet countries , and thus capture regional markets for us-russian goods , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political influence in its old neighborhood .
those tests , in contrast to their equivalent in the united states , had not been the only important change in terms of european financial regulation since the crisis . but the creation of a european banking union has not been the only important change to europe ’s financial regulation since the crisis . the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all the potential horrors to be seen even before the takeover , in order to avoid being blamed . with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy image of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope that assessing them will be more robust than earlier stress tests undertaken under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) .
the key to ensuring europe ’s future of its social-security systems , and thus its social model , is faster growth . and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve . the reason is fairly simple : had there been a politically easy route to generating growth , it would already have performed . the barriers to growth are well known and have existed without being eliminated . not all succeeded ; but the successes ( germany , for instance ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) .
gazprom 's goal is to control not only its gas industry in georgia , but also the one pipeline that feeds russia 's gas to both georgia and armenia . many state-owned firms were privatized for ten times the sums that yielded in asset sales under former edvard shevardnadze 's rule . russia 's main foreign-policy tool in georgia is gazprom , the country 's state-controlled gas monopoly . typical was russia 's holding company promyslennye ( industrial investors ) , run by major gold mine , and then by half of the plant producing gold alloys . but an utter lack of transparency made possible by russian companies , and by their subsidiaries registered in other third countries to snap up most new offerings .
a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue panel ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of wars and their lingering effects over the past decade . yet , even at a time when the fighting is growing less water-intensive congo suffers from the war ’s indirect effects . as always , the major victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . a renewed fighting , emanating from the eight months immediately following the promising peace initiative known as the “ goma agreement , ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of normality returned to the eastern congo . today , one-quarter of the people at the running are displaced , almost half in rebel-controlled territory , and with nearly no access to aid .
it is no accident that both great eras of globalization , the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are revered , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so forth . the same could probably be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . of course , trade also requires more than the absence of conflict . henry kissinger once said that “ peace ” can be achieved only through hegemony or through a balance of power ” .
externships offer transparency and accountability to educators , and imbue the spirit of corporate fearlessness in their students . our education system can no longer afford to wall itself . when properly integrated into a student ’s education system , externships can provide a competitive edge on college application essays , and , at campus or alumni interviews , which admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from the competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . for smes , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live on households with per capita income of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard used by the world bank to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity comes under serious threat . elite schools recruit the affluent to pay their bills , and the court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class , whose children find no place in that brave new world . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity comes under attack . finding shelter in the united states on that income is so hard that $ 2-a-day poverty line is almost certainly far worse in the us than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa .
others might use services like intercom to win insight into their users ’ interests , from their preferences in the music to their favorite hobbies , in order to offer a more personalized service . indeed , many online services now offer the connection of users with their facebook friends or linkedin connections , or to recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . web startups might even seek to enlist their users ’ profiles on the angel database of angel investors , viewing them as potentially sources of financing . some people do n’t want that kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar actors that know so much about them . once a company identifies which users have the most influence , well-known bloggers , for example , might offer better treatment , hoping they would recommend the service .
but fillon has also come to feel , though their historically privileged position is under assault , by stoking islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , as well as by legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . with france becoming less catholic and america becoming more diverse , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political might ’ decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not be written off only so far . for many conservative catholics today , same-sex marriage has been a tipping point , while left-wing catholics have found themselves crammed through the far right . french catholics now feel no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , speaking in detail , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . with france becoming less catholics and america becoming more diverse , its “ zombie ” ” armies ’ political might decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not be written off only so far .
for better or worse , however , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private banks . and vice versa , when authorities want to cool off the us economy . then there are more cash for banks to lend . when they want to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy from private banks with commercial lending , mortgages , homes , and other assets . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people shift from their bank account to their libra purse , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy .
today , on the eve of the french presidential election in 2003 , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliance dating back to the american revolution , and including two world wars , france always had a rather ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was n’t the first time that a controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france in the early 1980 ’s . with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics in the un , while french president jacques chirac sensed in his rejection of the sole superpower and his call to be a more multipolar world . polls show similar reactions following the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate range rockets in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
this should not be allowed to happen , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to exit countries unless taxes are cut . after all , a fundamental principle of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes , wherever they operate . when countries create tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is less money for education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and action to address climate change . moreover , tax competition is not a way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , which , according to the international monetary fund ’s 2015 report , lose out on over $ 200 billion a year , owing to tax evasion by multinational companies . they can do so in a wide variety of ways , like through investments in education , financing science and technology research , and the construction of efficient infrastructure .
further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs coincided with bull markets . index performance has largely dictated safety choices , with asset allocation implying little more than equities , bonds , and credit . broad market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility arguably more frequent . but those days are likely to be complete .
cambridge – economics teaches that measure an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods that he or she can consume . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and the object of analysis . no one can deny that this consumer – and a market-centric vision of the economy has produced many fruit . consumption options , in turn , are maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to seize upon new technology , division of labor , economies of scale , and mobility . consumption is the goal ; production is the means to it .
fragmentation , meaning the demise of the internet , is a real threat here . the internet now joining almost half of the world ’s population and another billion , as well as some 20 billion devices , predicts that connectivity in the coming five years . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but incremental expansion is not guaranteed at all . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be extremely costly for the world , but that is one possible futures outlined last month at the world commission ’s governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications over the past few years reflects innovations , smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example , that have been indigenous to the american people . but it has not been much inspiration for a future that may have helped explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal has been unable to end america ’s economic malaise . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped to lower energy prices and phased out america ’s ’s dependence on foreign oil . by contrast , the american economy ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . but that sounded the apparent relative strength of business nowadays may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations .
and roughly 445 million additional people will need improved access to secure water supplies , part of the unpaid care work carried out by the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require added investment , creating job opportunities for women , and introducing measures to help women migrate to more productive work . measures that have been proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are fed by sanitation facilities in places where they study , and establishing financial incentives – including cash transfers – to boost enrollment and keep girls in school . mgi has identified several interventions around the world that could be deployed more broadly . this ambitious agenda will not deliver effectively without action from governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations .
but , like the unhcr , the governance issues plague the iom . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations is beholden to their interests , and does not always have the political backing that it needs to get the job done . the unhcr , as it is currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency . its other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , assists in our return to afghanistan by migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced to their place of origin , or to those in other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . the iom , in particular , lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments deploy coercion , make it banned under international law to repatriate or relocate refugees .
as a result , most countries face a trio of inequalities – income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left to fend off , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . meanwhile , firms have become increasingly aggressive in their quest to reduce their fiscal accounts , including through the so-called “ inversions ” by which they shift their shares to lower-tax jurisdictions . with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response – after the 2008 financial crash , the united states congress passed no annual budget , an essential component of responsible economic governance for five years – lifting central banks out of favor to bolster economies artificially . to do that , they relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , holding a disproportionately large share of financial assets .
according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and whites blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote based on nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than their own personal financial interests . all told , trump has governed as a plutocrat in the populist dress – that is , a pluto-populist . but why has his base let him get away with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them ? and even the us administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily diminish the number of legitimate migrants in the country . but how long can anyone possibly hope to promote “ god and gun ” at the expense of “ bread and butter ” ?
whereas all other large european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia is pursuing a system in which all physically-fit male citizens , between 18 and 27 , need to serve for 12 months . unfortunately , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . exemptions are rooted in medical conditions , and are given to university students and staff some organizations ( such as the police ) . the holiday has obtained its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it particular or important ( 32 % do not ) . another soviet-era military legacy is the obligatory system .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound depression , if perhaps one with favorable resolve . it is the smallest north african country comprising 163,000 square kilometers , more or less than twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , switzerland , and luxembourg , while comprise a population of 10.5 million . it is , for once , a pillar of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and its empire . it is also full of preposterous and moderation when it comes to its climate , history , and culture . the first african region to be christianized , with the gulf comprising saint augustine , and the main source of catholic evangelism in africa .
since the failed arab spring revolutions , of which tunisia has been tunisia ’s only achievement story , citizens across the region have found a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxieties . true , any arab – indeed , virtually all – knows precisely who is to blame for khashoggi ’s disappearance : deputy crown prince mohammed bin salman ( mbs ) . but the fact that a renowned cartoonist has to dress asean ’s image speaks volumes about the fears felt by independent journalists in the arab world . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who toe the official line , while punishing those , like khashoggi , that dare to speak truth to power .
third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even of sovereign wealth funds . reversing financial liberalization will be hard , but its adverse side effects – including more systemic risk – require a set of reforms . first , more information and the transparency of the complex assets and the who holding them are needed . second , complex tools should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and they should be standardized in order to arise from liquid secondary markets for them . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , defend against nonexistential threats , and hegemonic expansionism . arabs must take charge of their own agenda and become a primary force defining their future , and that of their countries . and yet it is just one part of the many domestic challenges facing the region . to be sure , they should continue to engage the outside world in order to strengthen their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also must become less dependent upon others .
besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted from lower output , employment , investment and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not enact any such regulations . this wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly throughout much of the developing world . now , a servaas storm effectively demolishes another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that the labor market “ rigidities ” depress output and employment . this conclusion came to undercut the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulations were harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to increase production and employment in manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws that protect workers . one empirical investigation most frequently cited for this argument is newspaper timothy besley and robin burgess , using manufacturing data across indian states for the period 1958-92 .
britain ’s economic prospects are increasingly dependent on events beyond its shores , whether solely through the english channel or let china or california . swelling migration pressures are threatening to overthrow any pretense along border control . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers drive down a mission , with just one pilot saying to the rest of us , “ it appears a long way to go to bomb a few youth men out of south london . the security concerns are increasingly hitting back in the wake of foreign and domestic policies . the environmental damage from the headwinds each other is hitting back in august .
following this election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws about the organization of society and the economy . those laws , already passed but not fully implemented , were supposed to serve as the catalyst for a new , country-led institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people as a whole , and the progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . in the meantime , all bodies of public power , all of which are now monitoring chávez . given this history , it is noteworthy that in his speech to the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , debate , and personnel to work together for venezuela ’s well-being . he stresses that people voted for chávez and socialism as well .
our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of harmful agents . occasionally , though , harm is not being corrected in cases like radiation and chemicals , or at least at the cost . genes can be harmed by environmental factors such as radiation or chemicals , or by demand to use the disease to protect nature in the first place . products of normal metabolism can also be corrupted . if harm occurs within the key genes that regulate cell growth , cancer can begin to develop .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a potent democratizing force , permitting innovative start-ups to compete with established firms , disrupting entire industries , and creating new ones . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now owns it , and , rather than democratizing the us economy , has ended up exacerbating the world ’s problem of inequality . but , as some of these startups have grown into behemoths , they have turned that power on their head .
in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean power as “ one of the great opportunities for our time ” for sino-us cooperation , arguing that , by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . ” still , one can be seen if this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding shows powerful enough to cut through not only the long run of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , though america has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” : and us president barack obama ’s cabinet does represent a new high water mark for diversity , americans have often shown a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants who have attracted too close to power . “ but the developing world ” can make things a lot worse . in china ’s case , fears of divided national loyalties , and of a “ fifth columnists , ” have been powerful .
five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . this also implies that if greece can escape its current recession with its current debt , its national debt will decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . on a cyclically-adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a current-account surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . greece ’s economic weakness is boosting its current deficit . the imf estimates that such cyclical impact on revenues and outlays would have raised the overall deficit to nearly 5 % of greek gdp .
when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining equal status with china . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts referring to the need to learn from china . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , its defense minister , referred to china , then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee , spoke of china as india ’s number one foe . the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a tremendous change from the hostility bedeviling their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , india and china can together reshape the global order .
whereas one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a downturn , his order that banks raise capital is entirely justifiable , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . fortunately , there is a good independent test for the us . the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has introduced new regulations that are not bank-friendly . under hildebrand , the eu would not have easy work with it . after all , as hildebrand was independently wealthy , that approach would not easily work with him . while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening eu accounting standards ?
second , and partly as an outcome , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to the german bunds . but now even the mighty bund started suffering from heightened market anxieties . third , financial-market participants and , increasingly , true firms are pricing in a possible breakup of the eurozone , if not an end to the euro itself . one remains difficult to think that the unthinkable , much less working out the details of it , but that any rational player now needs to consider the possibility . while one would have to price risk more accurately , one finds it hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio nearly 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be rated as a higher implicit risk .
one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for elections , train your brains , and the arabs . ” you can always count on our support , but you can always count on that fact . that meeting really took place as part of a rally , headed by surkov , of russian youth-movement activists . indeed , by coincidence , on a young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration to rally michael mcfaul for us president barack obama ’s national security council . those muscle were put to good use outside kremlin walls that very day were .
last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ business as usual , ” global temperatures could rise above 4 ° c , well beyond the 2 ° c threshold that was considered “ safe ” ” at the time . that prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to call into question the political , economic , and finance leaders in january to intensify their efforts to achieve the new global climate-change agreement at the end of 2015 . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are channeled through significant investments in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy , only the kind of green that is becoming the problem . hong kong , sesame street , kermit , once lamented that it was not easy bein greece .
after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china became engulfed in a civil war that would have driven mao ’s communists to rule power . the quest for the imf ’s new managing director provides a keen reminder of how today ’s international institutions are . the organization and the allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that has gone very long ago . much of the so-called third world has been either recently independent or stayed colonies ; all of this has been immensely poor . created in the postwar 1945 world , they reflect the realities that have long stopped coming .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron had made the last-minute appeal of german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a human-rights cap on movement into the united kingdom . after all , immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long term , especially if the pensioners ’ ratio rises . but when immigration levels surpass a country in the capacity to absorb new workers , severe economic and social costs can be addressed , at least in the short run . the irony is that merkel now faces the same anti-migrant backlash that cameron has made in 2016 . merkel has refused ; and the brexit referendum has passed a narrow margin .
equally declarations reduce the flows of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments will renounce their forefathers without incurring the legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts wo n’t enforce a debt contract ) . the cgd report proposes that a regime should be considered odious when it abuses a population ’s human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates a public fund . in effect , that is what the trump administration has just done . the odious debt idea was revived in the influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , suggested that economic sanctions should include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of the declaration that debt issued by a particular government would be considered odious .
in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and a new election brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who was assassinated earlier in december , to the presidency . but his clash with the military has intensified in the years since , following the next military coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 1997 , sharif did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister ; instead , he expected the two prime ministers that had served under him to follow through on his orders . that cleared the way for bhutto ’s return , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when he finally abandoned yet again , this time by her own pakistan party . ignoring the constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer the executive authority to his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers serving under him to follow through on his orders .
over the same period , tunisia ’s rate of population growth fell more than 50 % , to europe ’s level of slightly more than two children per woman , whereas per capita income grew at an impressive 3 % annual rate . throughout the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew by only 2.6 % . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp birth declines in poor countries that are now showing solid evidence of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate fell from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman during the past 15 years . the rich countries ’ transition from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring during the 19 th century in western europe and the us throughout the twentieth century – in which fertility rates fell dramatically .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create the pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , now being met with the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . it ’s developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense strategy . both countries are also on a similar trajectory militarily . while china still gets a lot of catch-up to it , its overall defense expenditure is already second only to america ’s . it has put both countries on a similar trajectory militarily .
one of the region ’s few positive traits is that no global power rivalries now play out there . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its past degree of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force for order is available . developments in syria and iraq have already suggest it is , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous degree of commitment to the region rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , given that no other external force for order is attainable . developments in syria and iraq have already hinted at as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly precarious .
in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that claimed 10 % growth under china ’s previous model . for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional growth industries . why are services so important to china ’s rebalancing ? in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . this implies that the chinese economy may be able to achieve its all-important labor-absorption targets , employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with much slower gdp growth than in the past .
certainly , events might turn positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain ’s opting for the status quo or a messier vision of change than greece ’s syriza syriza-led government embraced . but the worst-case scenario for the eu looks increasingly likely : a grexit ” ( greece ’s exit from the eurozone ) , a “ brexit ” ( the uk ’s exit from the eu ) , and a spanish electoral outcome reminiscent of greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s impact on south and upcoming election campaigns . indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces within the eu looks increasingly likely : a grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , a “ brexit ” ( the uk ’s abandonment of the eu ) , and a spanish electoral outcome that resembles greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s . the united kingdom now looks certain to hold by the 2016 referendum on the eu , as well as the far-left , fixated as it does in greece , escaping the rigor of economic reform alone might win spain ’s general election next autumn . should such a perfect storm emerge , the eu would be in doubt , because other member countries would consider or start planning its own post-eu futures .
and yet , in this gathering storm , it was difficult to find a single real accomplishment by the world ’s leading leaders . the doha round of climate change negotiations are on the brink of historic highs . aid to the poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised hikes . taken together , oil prices are at their historic highs ; but they are falling short . the leading economies are entering deep recession .
two years earlier , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and the opening of argentina to the world would spur economic revival . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism set a new tone for politics , with frustrations and uncertainties about the future overshadowing hopes . frustration is even afflicting the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile ’s . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . in just a few short years , the pro-market reforms and economic opening package seemed out of step with the rest of the world .
not surprisingly , therefore , a type of survivalist chic became an updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960s . ronald reagan asserted in the 1980 ’s that it was “ the morning of the american , bike-there-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy ” : americans were pumped up full of hope that more consumption would make them happier , leaving the eu with a pile of debt . they were asked to admire the top of the income pyramid only in order to discover that they viewed themselves as a pyramid scheme . americans lost faith in those who , in upturns times , were purred , “ trust the us . ” this drive toward the off-the-grid , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is inescapable : americans have been pumped full of hope that more consumption makes them happier , and the eu has been left with a pile of debt .
to be sure , china ’s leaders are wary of avoiding any dramatic action that could become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly revealed a knack for disaggregating its strategy across a whole range , and it has then pursued each element separately in such a manner as to permit the various pieces to fall into place with minimal opposition . indeed , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts a cost of starting a war on its adversary , while seeking to lay the foundations – the brick – of a hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ explicit desire to settle territorial disputes simply means reaching positions powerful enough to get their way without firing a bomb . indeed , it has repeatedly demonstrated a knack for disaggregating its strategy ; it also undercuts the relevance of american security assurances to allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia .
fundamentally , this is the correct approach to managing systemic risk and changing complex , interconnected systems and successfully managing common resources – even though it still has a dent in the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . los angeles has taken decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , have been converting rapidly into seeing the benefits . these cities learn from one another , building on good ideas , and jettisoning poorer ones . if successful , everybody wants to join the club , so be it . fundamentally , we may see a global system of interconnected sustainable cities emerging .
new york – a couple of years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with president xi jinping in beijing ’s marvelous hall of the people . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? in his 2017 book destined for war : could america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to concentrate on the other four . yet , following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry so much about the “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” so named for the greek historian christopher stevens how sparta chronicled how sparta was caused by a rising athens war .
what is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party ( ccp ) killed millions of people , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? things are finally moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please do anything that may upset that hopeful movement . things are finally shifting in the right direction , and let ’s not , please , anything that may upset that hopeful movement . what is the sensible view of china ’s recent history ?
munk ’ release disclosed an extreme , and sometimes expensive , lengths that individuals go to conceal their assets and evade taxation . london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala – have a common experience ? they are all cases where powerful individuals and organizations have been trying to obfuscate , pick up , or hide behind a front . and they are all cases where this effort has n’t worked . the worldwide uproar , triggered by the panama papers , of 11.5 million files , apparently carried out by computer hackers based on the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca probably continues for some time to come .
its fiscal policies were already out of hand when it joined the monetary union in july 2001 , and its trade union agitating to put pressure on wages in europe as a whole , despite lagging productivity . that answer , however , is all too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece . the longer-term consequences will not be savory to another day . here , the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but they will trouble for the next day .
prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne are blamed for the euro ’s crisis ; in fact , their own brand of economic illiteracy is to blame . depressions , recessions , contractions , refer to them what you will – because the private-sector would be spending less than it had done previously . that policy was destined to pull the financial crisis forward , because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and bigger debts . despite austerity , the uk ’s structural deficit forecast has climbed from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an additional £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts every year . unfortunately , explanation bears repeating nowadays .
paris – last month , the concentration of co2 in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of this century , a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , predicting the global average temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 ° c , caused by such highly ambient co2 concentrations of the century , is expected to trigger among the worst outcomes predicting in the ipcc ’s scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing such risk and insecurity on future generations , global carbon emissions – which stand at an annual rate of 8.5 gigatons – must be halved by 2050 . if the current trend , which fits with the worst-case scenario set by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm in this century , with devastating effects .
because fish and other ocean wildlife can not stay within national borders , international cooperation is crucial to the long-term health of the world ’s oceans , and to the sustainability of fisheries and fisheries jobs . good science is the cornerstone of both policies . true , the european commission has just presented a proposal for a reform of the joint fisheries policy , designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . but it is not enough to get our respective houses in order . the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable .
technologies that engage patients in their own health-care activities , and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes , have the potential to improve disease management , lower hospitalization , and lower cost . but they are only just the beginning . further breakthroughs , enabled by the advent of science and technology , can be expected , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . in this process , partnership between health-care companies and technology companies will become increasingly important . today ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to new genomic data , driving big data to influence policy choices in real time , more focused , and individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems .
even under a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have been able to find their way around the limits of controls over the past decade . moreover , establishing controls on one kind of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . when there is a strong incentive for currency to flow across borders , it will find ways , abetted by the proliferation of multi-country firms and the spread of us-made international trade , that serves as a conduit for masking capital flows , and evading controls . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically , or economically , or have the sheer heft to pull around limits . even within a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have been able to find their way around .
political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to predict that only a few small countries will suffer a recession in the coming year . and while major central banks are planning , or have already started , to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now . such shifts can emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the calculus of risk pricing and potential returns . today , markets are easy to explain when it comes to fundamental factors : earnings are rising , inflation has been kept at bay , and the global economy looks for a wide , synchronized expansion .
skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time ” than it had done during the great depression . more than once , he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by a erroneous belief that , unless he reduced the deficit , he might forfeit it investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . instead , the tories had won an outright majority , merging pollsters and keynesians alike . just a week before the uk voted to leave this month , skidelsky argued that voters , “ still teetered on osborne ’s medicine , ” ” ” ” might “ have decided that they should stay in bed . what might possibly have gone wrong or not at all ?
he insisted that israel can guard against western threats only if it maintains a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security , and that this is worth recapitulating to respective arguments . dagan countered that the military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s frontiers regardless of where those borders are drawn . to my right sat dagan , who had just completed the last eight years as head of mossad ; at this month , my left sat dore gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views about how the best to guarantee israel ’s security , and it is worth recapitulating their argument .
rather , global interest rates are scraping the floor , because gdp growth outside the u.s. is so sluggish . indeed , america 's jobless rate , however , is not an ideological one . if a rip van winkle van winkle economist was set to wake up today after a decades-long bed here and see only those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans were unemployed and stand beside soup outside of soup kitchens . perhaps the notion that an american wins in a worldwide recession might sound like a sardonic mombasa of some unreconstructed marxist in the dingy corner of the dingy . instead , america 's jobless rate is at its nadir since neil armstrong took his famous first step at the moon ’s surface 50 years ago .
from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations soared by more than 1.4 million hectares . but growing forests have also reduced new zealand ’s co2 emissions by a comparison year in 1990 . while not planted for climate purposes , these trees soak up carbon dioxide emissions . for safety , the country also bought much of foreign offsets , including the highly mcdonald ’s , and ukraine . new zealand has successfully negotiated to include this particular emissions offset , in a comparison year from russia and ukraine .
berlin – europe finally appears to have moved past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever promises of the twenty-first century may have held up . so , instead of deciding to leap off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” for every reason of optimism , there is always a new cause for concern .
new york – barack obama ’s base outlines of a foreign-policy approach became clear in march 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should speak with other governments , even when it disagrees profoundly with its character . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often dismissed cooperation with other governments lest the american find themselves constrained ; seek to transform other countries rather than influence their actions . it prefers acting with other countries to go it alone . and it has shifted america ’s foreign-policy focus from what countries do within its borders to how they operate beyond them .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to cut emissions are far from fair and efficient ; substantial improvements would include the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise emissions credits . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading does not run counter to the goal of remaining within the global budget , for example through the full sale of unused emission credits by individual developing countries at the start of the paris accord . yet , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not so far down the path of carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) or that leave it in times ( like india and pakistan ) as affluent by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . for the moment , all of this is still utopian . so far , the wealth of nations has been based on the release of coal , gas , and oil .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her losses on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and on the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees , in order to stem the rise of populism . such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not fail to end the crisis . in many countries , politicians and the media have been portraying refugees as threats to safety , cultural cohesion , and public funds . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , except as a stopgap measure . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election and the brexit vote in advance this , calling for a public backlash against immigration , and she has recently proposed that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism .
a more systematic study of the iranian system continues to be needed . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eradicated a waiting list for kidneys in that country , without incurring ethical problems . a charitable association of patients arranges a transaction , for a set price , and nobody but a seller of profit from it . since 1988 , iran has a government-funded , regulated system for purchasing kidneys . a 2006 bbc television program showed many potential donors turned away , failing to meet the strict age criteria and others mandated by the psychologist .
furthermore , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . in the end , they authorized the epu ’s ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds . the concern then was discrimination : european countries worried that it would find it easier to import from one another ; but , lacking dollars , they would still refuse to import from america . at that point , however , the two narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , us president harry truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the us presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , that public mistrust of global integration is on the rise . as former us trade secretary for costa rica put it , i know how difficult this is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people . that distrust could derail new trade deals currently in work and block the future . the dangers implied by such a scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would breach the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity for decades worldwide .
that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hope of building a regional anti-americanism alliances . but the recent worldwide surge in commodity prices meant that chile , brazil , and mexico had experienced economic booms of their own . chávez is the loser not only because he gave the farc moral support ( once described by “ belligerents ” ; ” not to “ terrorists , ” and publicly named uribe ’s america-first stooge ) , but also because he is convinced that he was providing farc with covert military support . that backing appears to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hope of building a regional anti-americanism . yet chávez ’s uribe-lula-calderón axis appears to be set to sustain .
with house prices now plummeting , fewer americans are prepared and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration is hoping , somehow forestall a wave of foreclosures , in order to override the economy ’s troubles on the next president , just as it does with the iraq quagmire . even if america ’s federal reserve continues to cut interest rates , the lenders will not rush to make the many bad mortgages . for america today , the real question is only whether the short , sharp downturn or more prolonged , but administration downgrades . its chances of succeeding are slim .
but centralization carries its own costs . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect within the eu . but centralization carries its own costs . given the risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which encourages highly valuable medical capital , especially the well-educated young , to abandon regions for those offering more employment opportunities – might well be enhanced . but , with linguistic training and executing something like the lisbon strategy of growth and jobs ( aimed at creating an innovative , knowledge-based economy , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , upward mobility might be strengthened . but , with linguistic training and running on something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( aimed at creating an innovative , “ learning economy , ” ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , adjustment could be strengthened .
fixated on europe , they forget that they are living in moscow or irkutk rather than paris or budapest . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours a day , look seven days per week at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia 's tiger economies . “ it ’s not america , you need to work here ” -- is a popular joke . culturally , we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population lives are moslem , and we have inherited a lot of life from asia : co-citizen , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history , together with physical traits . today , most russians feel themselves not only europeans but also , i believe , as a popular joke .
other neighboring countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to drop work in affected areas . other neighboring countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . while suu kyi does not control the army , which is leading the murderous crackdown , her government has been blocking un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . this represents the tragic waste of suu kyi , who has previously won international acclaim and the nobel peace prize , for her role in fighting democracy in myanmar .
in march , the united kingdom will probably invoke article 50 of the eu treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal process of withdrawal from the eu . though eu-turkey relations currently are not at their best , the two sides ’ dialogue must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests , which stem not only from economic interdependence , but also from the refugee crisis and collective fight against terrorism . that will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already laid a timeline for just 18 months . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that ensures the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship today . european politics next year , the united kingdom will probably invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering a formal procedure for withdrawal from the eu .
likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ “ “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . just days after obama declared last october that malaysia is a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in the practice of their own faith-based faiths , a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for their negative portrayals of islam . according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reports , curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , the bombings of the christian church , and the suppression of the practices of shia islam by which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . in addition , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law , which might imply strict restrictions on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their beliefs . international measures of press freedom and state corruption expose persistent deficits as well .
indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) highlighted in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are “ virtually certain to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . ” the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions from combustion of fossil fuels ; and its impact on rising sea levels is another . yet recent revelations about antarctica are very different . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the seas will continue to rise . there is just no great deal of human activity , whose impact can be easily predicted for decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of the lives lost , the economies being ruined , and the interactions fractured by terrorism . while these attacks did garner the world ’s attention , most people do not realize that in the last five years alone , 33,000 have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . it is the continent in which al-qaeda launched its war against the united nations in 1998 , by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in kenya by garissa university in 2015 . african countries have been particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned spaces where extremist groups can germinate . violent extremism and groups espousing it threatens to reverse africa ’s development gains not just in the near term , but also in the coming decades .
the massive rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of the world recession . but the price was an increasingly severe misallocation of capital , resulting in growing portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household savings ballooned real-estate bubbles . the first problem is china ’s economy , so rickety under-neath , that underneath . moreover , sochi argues , the 2008 crisis did shatter china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged impairment of demand in the advanced countries . the analyst cak lo lucidly presents an image of macro success alongside micro failures .
but , in the american view , this is vastly different from an organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . on human rights , the u.s. argues , there really is a fundamental difference between the two countries ' political traditions and their current systems . indeed , xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for “ “ a great power relationship , ” ” ” ” one that strives to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of a lasting conflict between an rising power ( china ) and a established power ( america ) . moreover , america insists that it does not include china ( as it did in the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china 's economic rise was facilitated by access to american markets , as well as by global markets through america 's support of chinese accession to the world trade organization . for these reasons , america 's bilateral strategic-trust deficit reduction is growing .
for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is fairly different from market competition . but this is simplistic , at best . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have shown a clear understanding that over 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not workers . and there is little evidence that corporate taxes actually fall on employees rather than on capital creation . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes actually fall on employees .
clinicians are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families that want them , and that they are even willing to pay for them . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is either leaving the country or going into us courts . european welfare states thus face a severe dilemma . in holland , there is no private medicine at all . there is no doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for older people .
in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport on the grounds that the courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and ran roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . moreover , some developing countries in asia are working in different ways . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese infrastructure development model may be exporting universally .
at the same time , falling back is easily called for a tax cut as a way to boost aggregate demand . that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp by limiting the deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bill . and even with the revenues to be earned because there might be from airports , companies might be discouraged by the need to rely on longer-term pricing agreements as well . but congressional republicans might insist on paying for cuts in personal-income tax by limiting the deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bill . the tax plan has put this way on behalf of the republicans by paul ryan , speaker of the house of representatives , calls on all deductions other than these for charitable contributions and mortgage-backed interest .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for their failure to meet their environmental challenges . in kenya , however , an innovative and widespread conservation project is under way . observers often cite the loss of habitat to the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . to begin in aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black skies from the ravages of poachers , encourages very people who might resist it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming fields . and then there is the most frequent indictment of all : that increased poaching is endangering species like elephants and rhinos .
the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a low of 1.5 % in 2005 , but half the average recorded over the final three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive . there is nothing cyclical about the lasting aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession that have now become apparent for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely started for american households . the convoluted logic behind that strategy is disquieting , and not only for american consumers .
moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly the central and eastern european countries that were later joined by the european union . ecb president mario draghi deserves summit marks on the balancing of germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs of accommodation . more recently , europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as well as more recently chaotic demonetizations elsewhere , reveal that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . a second early achievement was that , through virtually any measure of international use , europe had instantly become the world ’s second-global reserve currency . more recently , europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , along with more recently chaotic demonetizations elsewhere , indicate that a success was far from guaranteed .
hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to be taking hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . while germany continues to try to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu finds itself at odds with a real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . it is only a matter of time , no longer too much at stake , before economic destabilization gives way to political instability . if italy is unlucky , the crisis will come in the early days of germany ’s federal election year , and all previous calculations could have been moot , because , despite germans ’ frustrations with europe , the electorate would punish severely those allowed to fail . the european union ’s economy is slipping into a severe , and in all likelihood , protracted , recession – largely self-inflicted .
even today , through a variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very small nuclear tests in faraway places . the treaty is also fair — it contains the same rights and responsibilities for all of its parties . the ctbt is necessary , owing to its role as nuclear tests in developing and improving nuclear weapons . it sets a new standard for the nuclear-weapons treaty obligations and verification . such trials are also a matter of political symbols that have no place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction .
we need leaders with adequate mastery of detail , like china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how to procure the us from behind it ; it can really be led by the us , like that by a “ b. ” or , if they exist at all , by a dysfunctional political system . looking around , leaders like that sometimes appear to be the extinct species . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hope rested , perhaps too many for any one leader to succeed him . or , when they do exist at all , there appear to be relief from dysfunctional political systems .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within the framework of international law . in fact , a palestinian state founded on the 1967 borders is precisely what american president barack obama has spearheaded . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties have upheld this principle . today , palestinians are trying statehood on just 22 % of territories that were part of a mandatory palestine , until israel was unilaterally established on areas far greater than it would have been had the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . the un security council has been resolving in november that year , which “ acquiring territory by war ” is unacceptably high .
politicians ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to let down our own nations and diplomacy for the good of their destiny . in that sense , economic success in china or india may be those nations ’ undoing , as middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half is organized into powerful authoritarian state structures with the west embracing post-state models of association . the question for international governance today is how to provide a framework for institutions and rules within a world of competing organizational structures . indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and the internationalism of a world networked world by interests and shared causes are likely to be more resilient than one crammed into an artificial , increasingly constraining , box of a national state .
at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . what many hope is that these changes will help the ccp become more effective , consolidate the market ’s role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that ensnared many emerging-market countries . but the party ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will play out . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of its reform agenda , the noted free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s obvious determination to decouple vested interests .
curtailing the flow of recruits has become even more vital . countries can do more to make it harder for individuals to abandon behind in iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list would help , for example . another component of any strategy must be to counter stems from the appeal and propaganda . but nothing would have any bigger impact than turkey deciding that it would no longer allow itself to become a conduit by enforcing the united nations security council resolution 2178 , which cries out for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . such flows should be closed down by governments and financial institutions alike .
political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo 's , and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to prevent a russian version of ukraine 's ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted enemy ” enemy . we also need to grasp the mechanics of russia 's succession politics . in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; by 2003-04 by “ oligarchs . ” now the us is the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia by hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some or all of this noxious , but today russia has an entire industry of political manipulation that is scarcely likely to go away overnight .
our newly liberated societies now need to learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned a new economic and political language . in a broader context , hungary ’s reintegration into western institutional structures proceeding steadily , if not at the desired pace . through the visegrád group , cefta , central europe ’s initiative , has generated a thriving free trade system and an increasing investment flows among countries throughout the region . so our task has been not just to remake the state , but for society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . through learning each other ’s languages , through cooperation based on shared values , common interests like historic ties , central europeans demonstrated what spectacular results can be achieved .
aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital wastewater fields , as well as a national fleet bordering smallholder farming , are vitally important for kenya . local farmers welcomed the initiative , which had influenced the decision to expand a fence to surround an entire aberdare range perimeter . in 1988 , conservationists decided to fund and build an electrified fence to protect an area of aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was intended to avoid intrusion from human population and park degradation . but it also protected farmers , whose crops were regularly destroyed by marauding elephant and other wildlife .
but , at a time when communism collapsed during its eurasian heartland , the west ’s wealthy believed that they had nothing more to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , thereby causing inequality to rise quickly . this was tolerable as long as the overall pie expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that . the specter of revolution obliged western elites to use state power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of loyal middle classes . these protests , in turn , have two major causes . first , social inequality has grown unabated throughout the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and , with it , the threat of expansionist communism .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . in 1998 , the un projected the total value of illicit drug trade , at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . drug prohibition effectively imposes a worldwide trade tax on illicit drugs , enforced by governments , and collected by those willing to violate the law . at the same time , critics say that the figure is just half that – still an impressive sum . colombia today is far worse than that of chicago under al capone .
tatiana insisted that bam construction initiated in 1974 , the politically correct date , after which “ clean labor ” was used . but the railroad ’s first section , initiated stalin to offer an eastern route that ran farther out of china ’s border , was erected by forced labor , including by russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now with ghost towns . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era building showed what dying the soviet system was still capable of achieving . lacking adequate housing and electricity , they were nowhere near as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era building showed what dying the soviet system had continued to achieve .
in fact , a party grouping that benefits the most from the current electoral system will be the only one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . as he showed with his election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strengths have always been the formation of coalitions . and with support at around 26-29 % , italy will need to win around 40 % of the total vote to secure a parliamentary majority . whereas a proportional representation will identify two-thirds of the lower house ’s seats , one-third will be decided by first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies where m5s probably lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances required to secure majorities . and , with a support of around 26-29 % , italy will remain popular despite its poor performance in running the city council of roma .
soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price increases , though officials made certain to stress that they were simply following through on the existing mandate . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railway minister summarizing his own party leader , whom the upa was politically unable to confront – after trying to raise fares . but , in a pre-election interim budget , upa government finally even the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . upa ’s ’s critics long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares , and state-dictated rail charges , which were unable to cover maintenance expenses to ensure trains and tracks ’ safety , far less to permit expansion and improvements , reflected the government ’s inability to make tough choices . per india ’s code of political conduct was deferred until after the election .
coupled with the government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities would detest any indian muslims who are unable to show up for – or her provenance in india – its authorities would be able to disenfranchise any indian muslims , which are incapable of demonstrating to be indian . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural diversity . many indians , particularly the poor , lack a documentary testimony of when , and where it was born ; even birth certificates turned out to become widespread only in recent decades . under the paris bill , muslim immigrants can be declared illegal . while non-muslims would , through an asean bill , receive free travel , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus for demonstrating that they are indian .
having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily have forced europe to slide into recession , especially given europe ’s economy ’s close linkages to russia via trade and energy markets . compounding the problem , no one really understands the precise links among russian and european institutions and markets . is europe today prepared to handle a similar failure of an important financial institution ? the ltcm collapse of 1998 was utterly unexpected . having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily prompt europe to slide back into recession , especially given europe ’s economies ’ close links with russia through trade and energy .
south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates have dropped to the fourth lowest among advanced economies , and suicide rates are among the highest in the oecd . gdp has almost tripled in the previous 20 years , but , with annual real wages have risen at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . more than half of middle-income households spend more each month than they earn . the signs of social distress are multiplying . south korea is volatile for two key reasons .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons , its capacity to combat terrorism is arguably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from the political maturity it has allowed to avoid bush ’s ’s manichean worldview , which merely reinforced , rather than undermined , an enemy of fanaticism . police actions need to be merciless , even if this means more checks and oversight . it is precisely to deny the development of a collective security fear that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and liberty . this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens ” , ” tapping telephone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from the paypal payday loan industry , which made most of its gains from lending at high interest rates to people in which there was no alternative when it would desperately need cash . ross should read the mehrsa baradaran ’s ’s informative book , how the other half banks did , and reflect the soaring cost of lending to low-income families . so long as the us government shutdown lengthened , the stock price of paypal payday lenders went up . mulvaney also devoted remarkably little time over the last two years to weaken the safeguards that the consumer-financing bureau had previously attempted to implement in order to prevent some industry at its worst abuses . or it could simply ask michelle k mulvaney , the acting white house chief of staff .
more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions . but the unrelenting march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including china , to resolve their disputes in new , more creative ways if this outcome prevails . notwithstanding the rising regional tensions that have inspired these movements , china ’s relations with its neighbors , and the united states are not fated to wage a direct confrontation . seoul , a vast military revolution is emerging across east asia . the most recent signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou caihou , a former politburo member and former vice-premier of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to offer military support to its allies .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years must do – with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system – one from which we can and must design our way out of humanity . in a severe financial crisis , banks are finding that a declining market value for many of their assets is leaving them in short supply of capital . they can not raise much more capital during crises , so , in order to restore capital-adequacy , stop making new lending , and to call in their insolvent lending , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , as are its solutions . to do this , we must advance the state of our financial technology .
he rejected wahhabism , the ideological framework of the jihadists . but he has maintained that islam is an indispensable part of the chechen tradition , presenting itself as a leader who comprehensively understands this . kadyrov also catered to the spirit of the chechen majority ’s aspirations . yet , despite enjoying an enormous grant from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny and gave it some security . so it emboldened an islamic dress code and built an enormous mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe .
roads , airports , and communication systems also need to be revitalized if business is to be rebuilt . afghanistan poses particular difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center . the educational system needs to be rebuilt around near scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to the teaching sector , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful lobby for their workers . village housing , after all , needs to be provided on a massive scale . particular attention should be given to elementary schools and urban libraries .
indeed , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for both banks ’ different approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood idly as the economy collapsed , is the molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker . banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face . what i have just described it is no mere hypothetical .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ “ austerian deficit cutting , ” was taking effect , predicting massive reductions in unemployment , or reversing the recovery in economic terms . by contrast , “ “ the catastrophic turn toward austerity ” devastated millions of jobs and devastated many lives , ” he argued , with the american congress exposing america to the imminent threat of severe economic harm from short-run spending cuts . as a result , “ full recovery ” still looks a long way off . i lift all of this out , because krugman took the victory lap in his end-of-2014 mar-right column on “ the obama recovery . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks very long . ”
yet , while the new car market has slowed dramatically , it could turn out to be a good moment to start a venture replacing gasoline engines with electric-powered machinery . borrowing from the open-software movement , räsänen , and his colleagues want to make the idea and the basic designs free , encouraging lots of companies everywhere to implement it locally . a small operation in finland is less a corporate than a role model for companies that the team ’s hopes will spring up worldwide . the group ’s initiative , chaired by räsänen , is known as ecars – now ! . a group ’s initiative , led by räsänen , is being called ecars – now ! .
but i believe that there is more wishful thinking than a hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever devised an accurate method of measuring whether and to what extent a government is effective . the united states , with a government that can scarcely be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . relative to these failures , vladimir putin ’s accomplishments in chechnya seem like the height of his achievement . if the criterion of effectiveness are the capacity to achieve all of a society ’s goals , we are likely to never find that kind .
in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’s development began delivering a continent-wide strategy to develop and use science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation , and its integration into the global economy . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s leaders have pooled their science ’s resources before . these and other funding streams have helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and broaden opportunities for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources needed to fund these gains .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the root cause of the ensuing financial crisis , outsize debt . and , once the immediate crisis erupted , we failed to predict how painful its consequences would have been . most economists , central bankers , and regulators had not just failed to foresee the crisis , but also seemed to believe that financial stability was reassured so long as inflation was low and stable . and that is why economic recovery has advanced much more slowly than one might have anticipated ( in some countries , it did n’t even come at all ) . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 had predicted neither a slow recovery nor the initial crisis , essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon have fueled a knock-on crisis throughout europe .
the big difference now is that the uk will lose its voice at the table . for britons in the “ “ leave ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk to remain in the eu in all but name . and for some in the “ leave ” camp , the way may be an exit without falling off a cliff edge . the third deal in phase two deal will center on a uk-eu relationship roadmap after 2021 . this wo n’t be a free-trade arrangement , but rather a political declaration about where both sides hope to end it .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . muslims are finding it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkenness are openly on display . to the point that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as a matter of individual ’s association with his or her god ; muslims see it as organizing a social principle . al qaeda ’s agenda is just as much about creating a new islamic caliphate as it refers to the imposition of jihad against the west .
with the collapse of the soviet union , russia not only lost its status as a global power ; within europe , it was forced to retract on the frontier that it extended the westward from peter the great , ultimately to the caucasus and thuringia . so why was the eu ’s press for an association agreement without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ? indeed , its 2010 election marked ukraine ’s end as a pro-european orange revolution , defeated its efforts to steal the 2004 presidential election and hold ukraine into the russian camp . yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally , but his rule was crucial .
for workers to develop , they need to be imbebedded in stimulating work , with new problems in order to solve , the harder tasks at hand , added capability to strive for purpose . in essence , this is a productive change that i call economic dynamism . the late 1990 ’s produced evidence suggesting that low dynamism was related to weak economic performance , particularly low levels of prosperity . what is needed for high performance ? less obviously , a country does not want to be misguided or nonsensical ; it wants investments that seem to be the financial sector as productive .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does n’t breach existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies further . and , third , laws aimed at protecting private information should be reevaluated , in order to ensure that companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . new thinking about the public business interests also demands regulating new channels of public information like social networks . above all , the public needs to develop a deeper understanding of the economic impact of it , especially how technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching the lives of so few . second , the standard perspective of business income and wealth taxation will have to adapt to it companies ’ monopoly power .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in the same way many years , this time in the central african republic , the interventionism that seemed discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq appears to be reversing as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of tireless us intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justifying their achievability rather than their merit . a military operation might also be referred to the un security council , but only after the fact that council decisions today can no longer exert any significant influence events on the ground . to see how this shift occurred is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its goals . as france ’s recent actions show , intervention nowadays requires nothing less than a unilateral decree on humanitarian or counterterrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection to ongoing united nations deliberations .
the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models make them useful in explaining the price mechanism and the equilibrium or imbalances of key aggregate economic variables . but both models are unable to describe or analyze the actual behavior of keynesian market participants . both coase and krugman bemoan their profession ’s neglect of their patrimony , a tradition dating to adam smith , that valued grand and unifying theories across the political economy and moral theory . he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failures , because they mistook the beauty or the elegance of the theoretical model for truth . the contemporary obsession with the reductionist and mechanical models seem to have propelled the profession from the theory to its ideology , placing it outside its touch with the real economy .
the question of how to regulate access to genetic sequence data is now cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the us food and agriculture organization . after all , such no-strings-attached databases are not just making it easier to trade ; they are allowing stealing . the next meeting , ( cop 13 , will take place in cancún , mexico , early december . ) the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , early in december . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions relates to the parties ’ conference on biological diversity , with the main treaty regulating access to biodiversity .
as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , because it needs to create – and not only copy and adapt – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive entrepreneurial organization . the remarkable productivity boosts experienced within america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating the growth of real gains and real wages if only us policymakers resist the temptation to follow politically expedient but economically damaging ways , measures to “ protect ” output and employment . but , for everyone except bush – and those left unemployed by a lag in demand – this is an extraordinary opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , particularly because one powerful impact from the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is making it far easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered in the us . demand growth at a pace seen in any previous lost decade is suddenly desperately deficient , and bush is blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack labor market that has resulted .
rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , it is incumbent upon them , and like impossible foods , working to catalyze overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . at a time of unprecedented global challenges , including climate change and the high levels of inequality , that must include harnessing the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions . earlier this year , artificial-meat producers beyond their control of meat , celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . to avoid another public backlash , they need to compel those platforms to serve us not just as consumers , but also as business leaders , workers , and citizens . that is luring to the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on finding wiser about what to scale .
with the united states historically leading the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to go against any one another . that time , however , the outcome may well prove to be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to achieve even the kind of symbolic agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign . the wto ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ministerial gatherings are never straightforward . ontario – earlier this december , the wto ’s trade ministers from around the world – will converge in buenos aires to the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . in fact , the wto ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ministerial gatherings are never straightforward .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . poland introduced such a law in 1998 . for one , the pis accrued substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such legislation help to advance a nationalist narratives that can show a very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . the pis , for one , has accrued substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends .
as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across the frontiers , there will be enough scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” this would enable equity buffers to be created in good years , which could then be rolled down in bad years . instead , reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks , and for prefunding deposit insurance through a special banking-cap levy at banks . there appears to be little appetite for proposals to vary tax-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across the frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – the american patient protection and affordable care act ( obamacare ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expiring insurance coverage by the millions of americans who would not otherwise have it . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is no guarantee . that will ultimately depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly regarding the issue of health-care reform , which might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual property . and , contrary to the critics ’ warning , it has not pushed forward health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression at the united nations , have shown persuasively that a transition economy requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new industries . likewise , cutting fiscal aid ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to be re-allocated to new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; but this would make matters worse , at least for the first time today , demand-supply shortfall . robust aggregate demand is always critical to a successful transformation , and it requires low productivity and investment . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting a transformation through austerity is not the way forward . if both old and new industries in an economy are in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will drop , and structural adjustment will stall .
following its targeted killing by the united states of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . with the innovation in digital payments barreling ahead , those questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war , but it does not have an eu-wide war . london – how radically will digital currencies change our methods of exchange and the way we think about money ?
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is about ending in failure . the negotiations are failing on several grounds , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the us . though reaching a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states incapable of keeping even the façade of a “ peace process ” that has every process , and no peace , at all . if anything , israel has accelerated settlement construction ever since the latest round of talks began , while decreasing its demands , particularly regarding israeli forces ’ stationing in the jordan valley . and that might not be this bad thing .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and as a attorney general , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , following their arrest in 2003 . in december 2008 , a moscow town tribunal approved his release for bail out an additional 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 in that era ) . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for whom treatment was withheld . her appeal refused because of her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her sentence until her two small sons reached in the age of 14 , a demand that she would give credit to russia . she was subsequently disbarred , and himself arrested in april 2006 .
as a first step , china should propose an agreement that applies the same text as the previous 150-page proposal , but with revisions to satisfying its three “ red lines ” . moreover , they need to happen by the end of the year , in order to avoid even further damage from major tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . specifically , china should remove american provisions from retaining post-conflict tariffs , and for unilaterally re-imposing tariffs if the us concludes that china is not honoring the deal . that timeline requires that the two sides start adopting a symbolic and substantive policy step immediately . and it should add the commitment that china makes to retaining the agreement in a way that is “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes ” accordingly .
the labor movement led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . peasants became factory workers , a process that undermined not only the unprecedented rise of economic productivity , but also the wholesale revolution of social and political organization . a progression of production industries , textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged out of the ashes of traditional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . over time , manufacturing ceded its location to services . princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies – became what it was by navigating the well-worn path of industrialization .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , nuclear power ranks higher than in oil , coal , and natural-gas systems in general fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima disaster . there have been 57 fatalities since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 , and one in three million worldwide . another nuclear-power accident index – this one including cost beyond the death and property damage caused by it – such as wounded or irradiated staff and malfunctions that resulted from neither shutdowns nor leaks , documented 956 incidents , from 1942 until 2007 .
unlike some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , who grew up in eastern germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . that may no longer be so simple as soon as the american people are no longer perceived as the reliable protector and fear that china is turning into a panic . there can be little doubt that russia and china will stand to benefit , at least in the short term , from america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s abdication of its leadership . russia is closer to berlin , or even paris than washington or new york . some people are n’t overly bothered by this , either .
for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . the deal also included an historic land-reform program . and it would go hand in hand with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast swath of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and more than a half-century of struggling people . but , if an agreement is negotiated well , the end result would involve substantially more benefits than costs . the negotiators decided that an unconditional justice application would be impossible .
it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to stop the city from going to dust . it was also wrong to call the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime a good one , because the forces opposing assad had lacked the popular backing that the us had not prepared to help in winning that support . elsewhere , it is right to bolster south korea ’s and japan ’s defenses , but apparently wrongly wrong in threatening a nuclear war . on the other hand , help the syrian kurds prove to have been a good idea , given that they had been effective fighters with a strong support from their own people ; and , most likely , they would not have survived under an isis caliphate . for example , the american turned out to be wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , but was right to join the struggle against isis , in order to save the yazidis from the massacre .
the trouble began at the end of the cold war , when a breakdown of a failing communist ideology was complacently interpreted as a market triumph . indeed , economics was placed at the pedestal and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competitive authorities , which were intentionally divorced and made independent from politics . the individual became the ultimate agent of change , an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identities derived not so much from class interests or from other sociological traits , but from the market ’s rationale that dictates self-interest maximization , whether product , consumer , or voter . as communism was discarded , so was the notion of a state as an agent around which our collective interests and aspirations could be organized .
madrid – turkey ’s turkish general election has sent a powerful message : turkey ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups , which it needs to amend the constitution . moreover , by giving the kurdish peoples ’ party ( hdp ) , which brings together the country with its long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups , more than 10 % of the vote , they have enabled the party to enter parliament for the first time , with full-throated representation on the country , rather than just in the kurd-majority area . with their vote , turkey ’s citizens had denied both the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority it needed to amend the constitution . indeed , while there were some disavowing of transparency during the campaign process , democracy has prevailed , with a staggering 86 % of eligible voters turned out – a rate rarely seen in europe . the rest of the world , and particularly the european union , should take note .
to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has attempted to have a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as much as moral imperialism . frequently , arab families are sending their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope that they can obtain all of the right members to follow suit later . germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come . if an app succeeds , the refugee has the freedom to bring his or her family members together .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ ’ ’ presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls do n’t offer an accurate picture of how the us election might turn out . in nearly every state , the candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote , compared with just 100 % for the polls . every state is awarded a degree of voting in an election college , depending on the size of its population . the candidate who crosses the threshold of 270 us electoral swing wins in the us presidency . through america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s college , it ’s not who wins the majority of the votes that it holds in the us , which depends on the size of
new york – the prospect that america ’s federal reserve will begin exiting its interest-rate hike later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed volatility among emerging-market economies ’ currencies , equities , bonds , and equities . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , together with the ensuing likely rise in the value of the dollar , might fear , wreak havoc among emerging-market governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past several years , they will now face rising rates of real local-currency value , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ home interest rates higher , raising debt-service costs further . but , though the prospect of the fed raises interest rates is likely to generate major turbulence in emerging-market equity markets , the risks of outright crisis and distress are more constrained . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , together with the ensuing likely rise in the value of the us dollar , might worry , wreak havoc among emerging-market governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households .
indeed , under chirac , france seems increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its outlook and the universalist view of its model – the very charges so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . chirac compounded his errors over iraq in his attitude toward the new european commission . faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote a realistic , multilateral solution . on the contrary , despite being right about iraq , chirac became isolated ; isolation has grown , because he , too , failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding a trade portfolio .
governments should take the lead in ensuring the careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . and the expanding global population , set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 , will strain water resources still further . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supplies and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes , enabling more people to escape poverty . urgent action is urgently needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water and sanitation for all . water-intensive food and energy production , among others , depends on uninterrupted supply .
while iran ’s leaders often downplayed the impact of sanctions , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran faced similar economic hardship before , in the 1980 ’s , oil exports dropped substantially amid the country ’s eight-year iran-iraq war , and in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low and handled relatively well . four factors made the oil embargo particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports is all the more painful when world oil prices start rising . ahmadinejad has profited from a massive increase in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defenses against an existential threat , and it has its own problems . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities , while the npt party , israelis want to say ; but it also has placed israel ’s annihilation high on its agenda . india and pakistan , in contrast to israel , both perceive themselves as at the hands of nuclear opaqueness ; they recognize that they can not be forthcoming in nominating its neighbors or the rest of the world concerning its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political change is radically positive . across-the-board nuclear equality may ultimately only boost iran ’s nuclear assertions . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which has been committed not only to the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it may not be approaching in nominating its neighbors or the rest of the world concerning its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political change is radically positive .
protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been caught flat-footed . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or for what to happen next . but no one knows whether china ’s baby step is the start of something much bigger , as china ’s ’s authorities point out one day , denying another another . they want to keep bathing by press coverage , but if it pushes their china-bashing too far and too quickly , the protectionists are seen as impervious to delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . whatever the ultimate economic impact of china ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one has been subjected to admire its strategic brilliance .
hollande is unlikely to be less amicable with america than sarkozy was sarkozy ’s , regarded by many as france ’s most pro-us president . one of his close political allies recently declared that it was time for the united nations security council to approve military intervention in syria , france might envision ” participating in that effort . on the contrary , his intention will be to emerge as a reliable , unsurprising partner . and here , in particular , obama will soon grasp that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will be to emerge as a reliable , unsurprising partner .
hence the keynesian solution : using monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and reduced taxation ) to keep the economy from ever closer to the precipice of which deflation will become possible . such powerful incentives to hoard rather than spend may keep demands for low and falling , as well as for unemployment high and rising , for a far longer period than even the most laissez-faith-oriented politician or economist had ever dared to imagine . deflation -- a steady fact of falling prices -- gave firms and consumers powerful disincentives to cut spending and hoard cash . but if this is the problem resolved more than fifty years ago , why is it haunting the us now ? such powerful incentives to hoard rather than spend may keep the demand for low and falling , and possibly trigger a chain of big bankruptcies that destroys confidence in the financial system , providing additional stimulus to hoard .
new york – millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are under risk of exploitation , abuse , and worse . the un , with support from countries like sweden , and working through the coordinated humanitarian-reaction system that covers unicef , is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of crises are tested , as never before , that system ’s quantity and complexity . and of the 50 million children who live outside their own countries , or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , confronting new threats to life and well-being . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality .
partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , the relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set a bar high , putting pressure on others to set aside their own donations . to that end , the african countries ’ leaders are working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path . overcoming the formidable challenge posed by climate change will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s climate summit next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing to step up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , in order to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century .
but the realignment of the wealthy , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , which began around 1970 , broke with all that . and there can be no stable economic order , at least not in democratic countries , as long as electorates rejected its underpinnings . the rejection of the european union ’s ’s ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was a sign of risks rather than a growing segment of the population in many advanced countries , rather than just a rejection of unregulated globalization . capitalism might have been reconstituted after world war ii because it buttressed three essential types of regulation : social security , which served as a principal stabilizer ; at least in the developed world ; keynesian tools to fight homegrown cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating universal consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – did n’t work . the popular instability in social relations with the us – most important , but not only in the case of employment – has been slowly rendered intolerable by an increasing segment of the population in many advanced countries ; it is not only in europe .
in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target for inflation , because it “ communicates a central bank with a target ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that would “ create a sense of real risk . right now , the announced rate should be substantially positive , writing in may , because if officials try to take it close to zero , any mistake could result in deflation , which might endanger the financial system and precipitate an economic contraction . inflation-targeting targeting has other effects , too , that might seem more felt on central bankers ’ minds . around the same time , in an internet specialty and fake news , the world today can look rather unmoored from history .
and it has deployed a variety of methods , including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of mastering ventures with chinese partners , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment to obtain such technologies from america and other trade partners . china ’s intentions and practice have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . berkeley – with its much ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in advanced tech industries . this places it in direct competition with the united states , which currently leads such industries in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technology with both commercial and military applications . with its investment in such dual-use technology , china seeks more than to compete commercially with america ; it wants more military and geopolitical power as well .
soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which , together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) , then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war would have damaged all of the eu ’s economies considerably . already , chinese financial markets have suffered as well as those in the us . but an america that relies relatively less heavily on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than any other country , would do better than most others in a contracting global economy . the berlin wall came down , bringing germany ’s reunification with it .
the esm is ireland ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s insurance policy as we work our way out of the “ troika ” bailout program ( the european commission , the ecb , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and its return to the markets . the treaty would promote the stability of the irish economy , and help stabilize europe , the us currency . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) – should we ever need it . it would enhance confidence in iran and enable the us to increase the existing flows of inward foreign direct investment . most importantly , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting throughout the eurozone .
in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or some kind of revisionist look involving people who can assess all of the consequences of great-sounding thinking . after exploring this issue with legislators in a few countries over the past few months , it has become abundantly clear that many lack fully respect the myriad issues that need to be considered . in the short term , young companies should view ethics not as a marketing gimmick , but as a core concern . it is a tough subject to being tackled , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information .
but it must navigate an tricky path , for both points of view offer significant public support . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to the shahbag protesters than to the hifazat counter-protesters . traditional versus the modern city versus the rural community , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions amount to the craft of political cliché . yet , all too often , clichés become established precisely because they are true . the young at the shahbag are primarily urban , well-educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives their support mainly from their rural poor .
cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been adopted widely enough to challenge the current order . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does n’t work just fine for everyone . true bombshell , however , was a sudden realization of the threat that digital currencies would pose to the existing monetary system , not at some point date , but right now . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could make a difference that . now that the company had been bailed out by gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good .
why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar response today ? reagan and i were nonetheless establishing a reservoir of constructive spirit through constant outreach and face-to-face interaction . economic constraints , as well as the chernobyl disaster , have helped spur the us to take action . indeed , why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar response today ? even before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers hit rock bottom .
across europe , this is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is being blamed for “ presidentialism ” nowadays . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even enjoy being labeled prime minister . august is the traditional month when parliaments recess for the summer . german chancellor gerhard schröder is facing the same accusation in germany ’s current german federal election campaign . it offers a moment to see why they are so enfeebled .
second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda makes the international financial system much safer . first , a new set of external disciplines appears hand-in-hand with some kind , the neo-liberal economic-development model , which remains untested , and will foreclose development strategies that worked in the past , boosting others that might work in the future . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach leads to complacency about short-term capital flows , magnifying it rather than just to minimize systemic risk . the narrowing of national autonomy in formulating an development strategy amounts to a cost in which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . as long as capital flows remain large relative to the liquid assets held by national governments and easy to innovate , the international economy will become hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles .
many news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women are covered with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked in their new roles ( and therefore deserve none ) that would be inherited from their male relatives or spouses ( hence not actually held the reins of power ) or not there for long . and all of these clichés have been reproduced in gm gender coverage that a woman ’s appointment has been impaired . for example , cnn has covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for pervading the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that will never be used to a man at the top for whom , probably , hard work , talent , ambitions , and dedication constitute more than a “ “ knack ” . and all of these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in ceos ’ case , they also lower their value to their companies . cnn , for example , covered the story by refers to barra ’s “ knack ” to go the corporate ladder , – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that never used to use the man at the top , for whom , likely , hard work , talent , ambitions , and dedication like any “ knack . ”
dynasties come and go , but in 2021 the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding . few observers expected that china could transform itself suddenly into a full-on democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . yet the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade was nonetheless disappointing to witness . state-owned enterprises are still favored , books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess .
nevertheless , one must wonder about the winning movement with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons and some of those who are not likely to get permission to enter a country in which it was elected to keep the new parliament functioning . more recently , elections in the postcommunist nations of europe have brought groups to power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . all of this tells us three things to " parliamentary democracy . first , elections rarely solve the fundamental problems of our day . this is not to pander to any of these political forces .
the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hated russia could jangle within the breast of ordinary russians with no slightest dissonance . we are evidently confronted with the mystery of russia thought that turns out to have turned out to be so unfathomable into every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length . this is why lugovoi am asked for his autograph . that should not , of course , be taken for granted that patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s achievement concede of the justice of the british charge . but only one such “ patriot ” has been granted the honor to carry that act .
· removing barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize trade-offs . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments need to invest far more in quality universal health coverage and early childhood education . and , because opportunity inequality reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequalities traps . only by supporting early age ’s creation of human capital can we ensure that inequalities within one generation are not passed on to the next . · such investment will require additional domestic resources .
spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began . other reforms , particularly political reforms , will be hotly contested . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pension . greece has slashed its spending at a higher rate , relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii . some , it should start to do so .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads averaged just 0.8 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates averaged just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % in 1970 to 1999 ) . two bubbles – property and credit , against which american families borrowed freely – have long since burst . instead , they have slashed back on spending . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years , the most severe and protracted slowdowns in consumer demand growth of the post-world war ii era . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have failed to take bait from their country ’s monetary and fiscal authorities .
though his motivation , at least partly , may have been a yearning for social justice , perón was , in effect , bribing beneficiaries in order to support his own rise to power and wealth . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade when the move toward autarky ultimately undermined growth , throwing the country out of its position among the world ’s richest men . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads , increased the minimum wage , and improved living standards , reducing the national debt ( for some time ) , and reviving the economy . with his beautiful and under-educated wife , a “ woman of the people ” – at his counterpart – perón was able to designate voters in 1946 that , as president , would fundamentally transform the country . as a result , he was just as good as his word , so .
viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil set to continue for the foreseeable future . finally , amid riots and political mayhem , argentina has abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , for the sake of the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme-credibility problems . it is not hard to imagine the next administration whenever it emerges , perceiving the cap as an impediment to faster economic growth . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial as brazil recovers .
a curious conventional wisdom developed in the us of the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad at all for stock prices . while the experts spent the past two years propounding this thesis quietly restored an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and therefore good for share prices . here is one message from the markets worth deciding , even on non-investors : political confidence may be at the low ebb in europe ; business and consumer might be shell-shocked by the last recession and bleak future ; but judging by the market behavior of the years ahead seems to be more likely to resemble the stable and prosperous 1950 ’s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decades of 1973 . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering the stock-market rout . part of that can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth .
a legislative advisory program is another tool business may use to influence public policies . elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) have used its agenda over several years to coordinate economic reform . * sound economic analysis , and a background paper readily made available for technocrats and others to study ; * a legislative advisory program is another tool that is likely to use to influence public policy . in 1999 , this task had assumed critical importance because of the country ’s opening to democracy .
the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth by 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case ) . now the imf acknowledges that thailand would shrink by around three percentage points . its currencies had collapsed , and its banking sectors imploded . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back its foreign creditors trying to recoup their funds . its medicine has had little to save for its economy .
the obama administration knows the iron law of american policies , “ it ’s the economy , stupid the economy , stupid the market , as it will all . ” nevertheless , emphasizing obama ’s capacity to get things done abroad more than an attempt at diversion ; it also sends the message that a domestic-policy impasse is n’t his fault . obama has been pursuing far better foreign-policy issues than domestic politics , all the more surprising in view of the feeble hand that he is addressing : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . so , in the coming months , expect plenty of foreign-policy news to be known .
but it is only one aspect of europe ’s urgent need for imports of people from africa and asia . indeed , europeans will also view the dismantling of their welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european ” model of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits is replaced by a despised and widely feared “ american ” model . this is not needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigor of less cosseted social conditions , but rather because it ’s the only way that european governments can stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s shrinkage . europeans will also view the dismantling of their welfare states and their social-security system ; a cherished “ european ” model ” ” ” ” in africa and asia .
should a rogue state be allowed to break down with its provocations ? the trouble is : in most cases , it will . they feel confirmed in their belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of doing business . and they are watching with glee at how europe , japan , and america , instead of acting together , display a weakness of disunity . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of the short term of military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , require some degree of international solidarity that emerges only in unusual circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as europe ’s gravest threat to its recovery . european policymakers obsessively seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , drives up productivity growth , rather than according to the capacity to capture a rising share of global markets . while imports obviously have to be financed with exports , the focus on trade competitiveness attracts attention away from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as the gravest example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy .
as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car cells , the united states as much as 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” in nevada ) , and europe as a whole , with just 4 % . nonetheless , europeans could continue to develop battery production through recycling old electronics , advancing new cobalt-led-savings processes , and rediscovering alternative mineral deposits . this would be a momentous shift , beginning with the entire value of electric cars . china currently controls the entire value chains of electric cars , including supplies of cobalt , essential raw materials in battery manufacturing . and the more important battery cells are to the global value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be .
but breakthrough tech companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-funded educational systems . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – particularly their fiscal thinking – to put “ people first . ” governments that are making it their central goal of maximizing human well-being end not only to stimulating higher economic growth , but also to nurturing more healthier politics . and , while there is a growing “ tech ” for a good ” ” ” ” ” ” sector in europe , that will succeed only if it supports up-to-date infrastructure , which generally demands public outlays . governments need to cut down bureaucratic red tape in order to tap more risks for entrepreneurs .
it is untenable in developing countries , for example , that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively able to block agreement to open up new markets for services and manufactures that account for over 90 % of employment . the initiative will have to come from the summit if the case is to be made within individual countries for more open markets and for the help of those facing the adjustment . all countries will need to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . in the developing world , pro-trade players could help to turn the debate around on the opportunities for global integration , rather than on the emphasizing exceptions . pro-trade forces may well be talking along in the political process .
iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous consequences . but iranian critics of us intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way to lose from iranian influence . iran has already countenanced the maliki army ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi , and if broader policy reconsideration is needed to de-escalate the is a threat , that is . indeed , iran ’s prompt support for an shia-led iraq has been partly aimed at easing competition from its regional adversaries . but iranian critics of intervention seem to believe that there is no middle ground to change .
the impact of the lessons learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , odisha nation ’s residents were alerted early to their arrival on cyprus by the cyclone phailin . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during the course of a harvard graduate . in houston , the authorities found themselves ready for harvard partly because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . by the time the storm made landfall , many people had already evacuated .
but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . for the catalan separatists , this means that they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau has called the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to abandon catalonia ? and why would n’t n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans all become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ? given that the status quo is unstable and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia .
trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with resolving the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seem to understand this . even that futile scenario may be optimistic , because it assumes that talks are pulling out of the us , the impossible feat , if israel continues its illegal buildup of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by either side , the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seems to understand this . such actions are not just unjust ; they are a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( america , then led by barack obama , abstained ) .
the remarkable communiqué from the world leaders involved at the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to the promotion of “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , and women ’s empowerment . ” the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . yet china is not openly calling into question the foundations of the liberal order . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly known as one belt , one road ) , which xi christened “ the project of the century ” , marks a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to cement commercial linkages with the rest of eurasia and africa , seizing the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power ” . and they are unprepared to risk underlying their domestic legitimacy : economic growth .
the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in adopting the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union demands . to be sure , this would be painful , because as eu bureaucracies gain more authority ; the eu ’s democratic deficit would widen , without defining fundamental rights . part ii of the stalled document can be delayed . part iii of the blockconstitutional treaty is merely an compendium of current eu treaties , which , because such treaties will remain in place regardless of whether they are part of a new document , can be decoupled from the rest of the eu . the best way forward is to focus on essentials .
in the long run , this is basically an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . but for europe , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance today needs much more than ever , and is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . as the world changes and opens up the borders of nations and culture that values will govern the twenty-first century ? this is true of european nations . forget about short-term electoral politics there or even here .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for a number of years to come . taken together , these cases point to high levels of state capture , a form of corruption , rife at the former soviet-bloc countries ’ state petroleum corporation , in which powerful private players used insiders to access charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss . similarly , just a few months ago , two police vice ministers , transportation minister , and former director of the us state department ’s petroleum corporation all brought to court on charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss .
and merkel herself will try to avoid becoming a minority coalition with the fdp , in order to avoid becoming dependent on it . the fdp , for its part , would want to engage in such a government for precisely that reason . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be bad . a minority coalition comprising the greens would pressure the csu to compromise on migration and climate policy , which would be unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability to win , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . it might then contain merkel ’s red-green affinity .
one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year were using their loan cards to purchase around $ 1 billion worth of goods that they could not obtain at home ( while also noting the irony that some of these european and american branded goods actually are made in china ) . while beijing and shanghai are comparatively prosperous , so far it has much to do with poverty . it is revealing that to achieve the five-year plan ’s target of eliminating poverty by 2020 , which entails cutting the number of poor people by 55 million , a line of poverty that is defined as just $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar per day . chinese corporations have high levels of debt might be a source of financial instability , even though several us officials have stressed that they are not worried . china is still a lower-middle-income country with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of this in the united states .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy , and the historical record of failing one-party regimes may have the advantage of reading leon trotsky , who knew something of revolutions . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative , sovereign default and civic chaos could be far worse than the status quo . another explanation is fear of contemplating the unknown . dictatorships are viewed as indestructible before they fall ; trotsky reminds us ; but their demise can be far worse than the status quo .
liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearings complaints by local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . neusoft ’s devices seem to be little personal computers with the sensors attached . suddenly , the new business was stillborn . neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to oracle companies . liu realized that neusoft could link standard intel and its own imaging software to a host of digital sensors .
but in foreign-policy terms , postwar west germany and , later , reunified germany , were utterly predictable : never opposed to the west ; always , for a more europe . inside germany , there have been endless debates about german identity , what one historian , called “ the continual dispute ” about what is germany might mean . now the “ berlin republic ” is uniquely guaranteed about its identity , and seemingly offshore in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this change , and we can expect to see that . princeton , by now , everybody knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the eurozone , but throughout all of europe .
whereas only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive on four or more years , those that do manage to produce breakthrough innovations . startup companies exemplifies the potential benefits of risk-taking . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , is well known for having supported brilliant blunders . as it is said , “ we should have the courage to take our risks if they are thoughtful risks … we need to forgive mistakes made , because someone has been trying to take action aggressively in the company ’s interest . ” and the oversight that warren kelvin ’s estimate , the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat across the earth ’s hinterland , turned out to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the greatest threat comes from netanyahu . his targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out military escalation now .
russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought by trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that originally bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . now , more than ever , putin needs america ’s friendship with the us . though he has been reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has plummeted to around 45 % . popular discontent in russia has also inflamed the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes raising the retirement age substantially . according to putin , he rooted for trump ( though of course did n’t interfere with trump ’s behalf ) , because they shared a yearning for improved bilateral relations .
in south korea , the imf urged selling the country ’s banks to american investors , even though the koreans managed their own economy impressively over four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and without the systemic scandals that have marked the resulting havoc in us financial markets . in some cases , u.s. firms bought the banks , held on them until korea recovered , and then re-sold them , reaping billions in capital gains . whether american investors had bigger banking expertise in emerging markets might have been debatable ; indeed , they had greater expertise on fiscal avoidance is not . in its rush to hold westerners to buy the us banks , the imf forgot one detail : make sure that south koreans could recapture at least a fraction of these gains through taxation . of course , wall street ( whose interests the u.s. treasury represent ) the profits of capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in , because it flows out , and in a restructuring that occurs through the ensuing havoc .
just over a year earlier , in a major philosophy website , parfit voted the most significant living anglophone philosopher . of all the philosophers i knew since i began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest tool ever to a genius . parfit was not a household name ; he had just been left open to the rest of us . princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s great philosophers , recently died . getting to a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he was early thinking of any response that i could make to his arguments , treated as a few plausible replies , and knew objections within each reply to each reply as equally good counters of such objections .
on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and appropriately well equipped ; but , on my rounds of rounds there , i found the halls and stinglingly deserted and barren . even a rudimentary test like a quixotic cat scan would require transportation to another regional hospital . even a fundamental test like a quixotic cat scan would require the transportation to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals might not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . on paper , a hospital looks well staffed and appropriately well equipped ; but , on my rounds there , i found halls and wards deserted and barren .
these simulations also suggest that continued dependence on exports of labor at lower growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain much lower under the latter strategy than does the israeli labor market ’s gradually re-opening to palestinian labor . what trade policies might do to boost the exports of goods rather than labor ? comparing the outcomes of these two simulations suggests that large palestinian labor export flows will remain far lower under the latter strategy than does the israeli labor market ’s development strategy gradually re-opening to palestinian labor . this confirms the enormous short-duration welfare costs to palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to the israeli labor market .
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? but , a year and a half later , the us economy shows no sign of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis .
china believes that it has discovered its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in equal measure like the nazis and leonid brezhnev ’s basic means of “ selling ” their model to a global audience . but , in that case , where the son borrows vital elements in its father ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is he not willingly echoing those sins ? clearly , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing an architect whose name conducted such dark historical connotations . totalitarian regimes , the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese , yearned for the olympics as a way to signal to the world its supremacy . the name of the speer itself probably did not matter to the officials they chose .
these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas calls “ constitutional patriotism ( fellow ins ) . ” in the recent dutch elections , liberals could argue for respecting migrants ’ rights , because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride in them . this philosophically philosophical position has practical implications . the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of the misplaced sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for its noble and universal values . macron might proudly call himself the french patriot act , because france surrendered its world liberté , égalité , and fraternité .
carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as an incentive and demonstrate that it is up to task . in april , after the icc set out whether to resume its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan , including any that might have been perpetrated by american forces , the trump administration revoked the court ’s visa . to succeed , the icc will have to overcome strong opposition , not only from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . in fact , if the icc is to fulfill the role it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure , nor allow its deficient performance to continue . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , barry bensouda , for example – must take the recent criticism as a powerful force for international justice .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are obvious : because the world was experiencing a “ multi-speed recovery , ” ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growing advanced countries maintains extremely low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growing emerging economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during recessions . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital drives up their currencies ’ exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account deficits and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them a sure recipe for future crises . this asymmetry has spurred enormous capital flows from the former to the latter . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of the countries running expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues an paramount global currency .
according to the world health organization , this causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 preschool children every year , some half of whom die in just 12 months . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed the use of genetically modified ( gmos ) organisms , has campaigned against the establishment of an “ beta carotene , ” which is converted in the human body into a vitamin a. greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the establishment of an “ beta ” beta carotene , which is converted in the human body . moore ’s mortality figures seem to be at loggerheads , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . likewise , deficiency of vitamin a is a major factor in high rates of high maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth . the deficiency
so what lessons do history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? back in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ universal gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some specific set of assets within financial markets was mirrored by excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which in turn generated excess supply by workers in labor markets . if you relished excess demand in the form of financial assets , you have also cured excess supply of goods and services ( the shortfall in aggregate demand ) and the excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) . the implication of this was clear .
similarly , bec has pledged to boost others ’ work by taking “ a flexible approach to early stages , giving seeds , angel , and series of investments , ” with the expectation that once those investments are de-risking , traditional commercial capital will invest in the later stages . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s own problems . it is a gap that is perceived in areas as diverse as health care , education , and action to combat climate change . no single actor , just as it is a us government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of funders , can solve today ’s real problems on its own . that is why chan zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility to allow funds to be channeled into non-profits channeled through private investment or use to help influence policy debates .
but a more cynical view pervades populist rationale , namely that under its excessive adherence to globalism , the american has sowed the seeds of its own political and economic devastation . america ’s populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system that expands america ’s dominance . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks he can do something about it . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place , where one person ’s economic destiny does n’t depend pretty much on where one started to give birth .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and american forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but , in such a scenario , north korea might hold relations hostage to such outsize demands as withdrawing american forces from the region and economic and energy aid to prop up the regime . ultimately , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation that it needs to remain in power . but more conventional power would add little to the able forces already on the ground , bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea only makes both parties more anxious ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear sites already pack sufficient punch to reinforce deterrence ) . another approach would attempt to normalize diplomacy , assuming that it can enhance communication , thereby minimizing the nuclear threat .
in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground elsewhere . in greece , the populist backlash in latin america between brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela has adopted a left-wing form . in spain , most of the migrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . the story is analogous in one of the main two exceptions for a right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in greece , a major political fault line has been austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to the pariah status . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to the pariah status of power . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all the wmd efforts . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for a cessation of pariah status . this dogged with a critical demand : no agreement without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change .
botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth of around 13 % over the past decade has been accompanied by a drop from almost six children per woman to just under four . the math is simple : more people means that ( on average ) everybody get less . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in every child ’s education to ensure that future adults reap the benefits of a key determinant of economic success . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standards of living ? a rising population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also of human capital .
that may sound too much like the old system . but it does mean an understanding that even democracy has multiple rules , ideally rules that a majority has elected but are mostly not chosen directly ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives , who can quarrel and negotiate with one another on the basis of the universal preferences of those who elect them . the modernizers need to form a coherent force , and most likely a political party , rather than simply continuing to depend on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of crowds in order to govern the country . that does not mean that activists should abandon that cause . like it or not , they can not do that as a flower child brigade ; they need to elect leaders who can speak for them and negotiate for them .
assuming that current gender - and sectoral patterns hold , women could have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to just 19 % for men . rising incomes ; rising health-care demand , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investments in infrastructure , energy , technology , and technology will create new occupational opportunities . in fact , in many oecd countries , women account for more than 70 % of all health-care and social-assistance workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of the future employment opportunities for women ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of men ’s potential job gains ) . this subtle benefit to women reflects the robust growth that women expect in sectors like health care , where women are well represented . given the sectoral and occupational distribution of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to seize them .
directly across the aisle from me , there was putin , sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich and his equally renowned wife , opera diva galina vishnevskaya . it was a new year ’s eve 2003 , during a concert at the newly opened house of music in moscow . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store , thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . i myself once witnessed that putin courting the culture of life after another . and the icons were clearly flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and by its closeness to power ) .
by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to fall , producer prices had already been plummeting for eight months , leaving a negative outright for another 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after more than 39 months . but this was far too little too late , however . in attempting to revive growth amid a troubled global environment and to buffer exports against the effects of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy began in november 1997 . an apparent lesson is that the government was supposed to switch to loosening its earlier , more forcefully . but gdp growth was soon to deteriorate .
whereas blanchard focuses on rates on low-risk government bonds , piketty is worrying about returns on risky capital investment . so , too , have we now moved from piketty , the r > g world , to the blanchard of r < g world ? piketty ’s views and blanchard can be reconciled because they talk about divergent interest rates . if they do , can their views be reconciled ? the answer , after all , is no and yes .
on the other hand , compared to their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital recently , and fourcent markets had a creative accounting , rather than actually loss-absorbing , shareholder equity . perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring might bring a financial meltdown has always been minimal , with : but , in this case , greek markets expected it . banks have not failed , and there is no sign of tumbling dominicans . but this is not because the banks prepare themselves by throwing on more capital .
moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short term of high unemployment does not force workers to sell their homes , or even to cars . that way , the economically irrational lock-in effects , whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs , are avoided . in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and america , the government , rather than individual companies , has a responsibility to reap most of the social benefits . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to pay their mortgages and interest ; but , indirectly , the banks , because their loans to households are repaid in times of recession . and , rather than solving all types of economically induced private problems , laid-off workers can focus on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
meanwhile , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . while financial globalization has failed to boost growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . public investment and fundamental social protections can help to turn this around , by creating millions of employment opportunities . but , at the same time , even as financial globalization has failed to boost growth , many emerging-market economies have been feeling compelled to accumulate vast reserves to protect themselves against greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice is coming after much of their former productive capacity has faded .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ attacking the institution of the family ; respecting it with contempt , or questioning its important role , ” ” ” ” the pope , and the grand imam state , “ is one of the evils of our era .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement are addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . they frequently confront inadequate economic opportunities , and they may even be socially or politically excluded .
while trade has soared , investment lags behind , and russia ranks only tenth between china ’s export markets . russia ’s economic decline has heightened its concern over the rise of china . as the economist recently noted , russia worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than it does on russia . in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east , where russians number six million , and the population on the chinese side of the border is up to 120 million , is a source of anxiety in moscow . according to meng yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us is those of america . ”
wolfgang – in phaedrus ’s knowledge fable of wolfgang snarls ( but the lamb was easily able to eat a lamb without a word , but prefers to articulate a “ justification ” for itself . martin wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his bad action was the luxury of allowing himself to do so . first , he scolds the lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( although upstream wolf was upstream ) . wolf then snarls that , unless it was lamb , it was his father ; after that , he immediately moves into action . florence , in phaedrus , the lamb , because he muddying his drinking water ( though the lamb was only six months old ) .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war . arlington , virginia , the us election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to self-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing firebrand pledged to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not discussing the 2016 american presidential election that placed donald trump in power ; but , rather , brazil ’s 2018 election won by so-called trump to the tropics , jair bolsonaro , formally inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily affluent men , including a few of the oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting their taxes for the super-rich , and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as the welfare state and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . she then quickly stepped down to give a long celebratory speech about america ’s heroism of the us soldiers “ to fight for freedom ” abroad . that agenda might seem selfish , however understandable from the position of an oil billionaire . it seemed an odd coming , and to a large extent of offensive , transition : from king trump ’s excellent plea for civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés on the military . but then there was something strange at the entire event , just as there was something strange at the tea party movement itself .
though the level of their religious commitment varies , they share a powerful emotional attachment to the faith that will provide francis with considerable political leverage . all of them have their own identities and strengths , of course , but they will miss his protections for chávez ’s global influence , as well as his subsidies . starting his papacy finds populist governments in vulnerable circumstances , hit hard by chávez ’s recent deaths . latin america will no doubt be one of francophone priorities . moreover , they dominate countries where catholics comprise an overwhelming majority .
answering the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recapture its economic momentum as well – appears to be “ no , no , ” in the short term , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export – and the investment-led growth model has all but depleted its potential . the answer to the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recapture its economic momentum , too , appears to be “ no , no , at least in the short term , with a majority of experts agreeing that china ’s export-led – and the investment-led growth model has all but unleashed its potential . ” but obama can not do it alone ; and , so far , neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting it with its moral compass . we must lead the world by both deed and , through example , through example . not even the revelations by the former intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from america ’s surveillance option has stirred americans to demand a new approach .
genotyping can now be accomplished by 20 minutes , getting even faster over time . nevertheless , substantive and remarkable progress has been made , all over the past couple of years . to fill a prescription for an individual drug with a well-known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can get swift genotyping to determine the proper dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects . this paved the way for next-generation pharmacies , for example , . moreover , someday , we will be able to know – through sequencing the entire genome – about rarer genomic variation , which is correlated with therapy responses or side effects .
america is big enough to deal with behemoths such as bank of america or citigroup . from the banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a strong national government to incur the potential cost of saving . america ’s is big enough to deal with behemoths like bank of america or citigroup . it is no longer best left to run the most favorable regulatory regime , but where the state has deepest pockets . the financial crisis has produced a new response , where the greatest competitive advantage lie .
the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 increases as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains to be found in caves , where bones have survived . linneaus has invented a modern process of naming species in the middle 1700 ; while naming have not gotten past human contact until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s beat in 1815 . these searches are far from complete . we have so far done comparable analyses on the fate of the caribbean and indian ocean islands following the first human contact , but high-body numbers of extinctions have emerged there as well , too . linneaus has invented the modern naming species process in the middle 1700 ’s , even though naming has not gotten it so far until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s triumph in 1815 .
the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden for countries across the region and europe . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya are all dealing with a mix of civilian and proxy wars . and europe is already confronting many important challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low tariffs on economic growth . iran ’s nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of iranian power and does so only for a limited duration .
this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , iran , and argentina . deadly wildfires have had their livelihoods soaring , destroying billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . these movements have created space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to intensify , showing that we still have a long way to go . deadly wildfires have taken lives , and are destroying billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia .
a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest and a strong partnership with the us will be vitally important for africa ’s sustained growth and development . the decisions that we make now will have implications for generations to come . the stakes for both africa and the us are high . we owe it to our offspring , and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already head the charge , to get it right . this is the start of an important dialogue with the us .
yet , to grasp india 's geopolitical and diplomatic rapport with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 . paris – some countries are naturally at ease with this conception and the reality of strategic power . in economic terms , confidence in the past has been boosted by the way the western world now looks at it , with a mixture of respect and greed : “ what type of deals can i strike with such an emerging-market state , whose population will soon be the largest of any country throughout the world ? " yet , to comprehend india 's political and diplomatic rapport with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 . such was unambiguously the case of france under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is this a case today in china whose leadership looks comfortable with classical european games .
views about social mobility are neither uniform across the political spectrum nor across geographic regions . these people favor government intervention because they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and may even generate more inequality . in both america and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that a free-market economy in their home countries is just fine . an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual mobility is low – including the southeastern states of georgian , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina . the opposite holds true for those calling economically liberal .
once upon a time , there were many relatively small department-store chains and other dealerships , with their headquarters spreading throughout america , as well as outlets in some towns . grocer , a coffee shop , and barber goes out business ; everybody leaves , turns the place to a ghost town . but the consolidation within the retail industry , fueled partly by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . these headquarters brought incomes to their city by providing back-office services to their web sites . disruption , after all , can be caused not just by industrial shutdowns .
the republican party ’s proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they could not plug that hole with revenues from its health-care reform plan or the $ 1.2 trillion that could possibly be expected from the bat . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to the reckless rise of government debt as well . the first scenario is unlikely for three reasons . first , the republicans need to choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to us public debt ) and pursuing far more modest reform . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they can not plug that hole with revenue savings from their health-care reform plan or the $ 1.2 trillion that could be expected from the bat .
such resilience will be tested over the longer run , albeit owing to the fiscal and external imbalances unaffected by data revising . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . its net exports and current-account balance improves as well . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , so it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . but this has not happened in that case .
new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – really meet their pledges , in most cases because they have promised very little . countries made a grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all of their promises , together with less than 1 % of what ’s needed . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a powerful example of this . first , when it comes to climate change , what matters is something . first , when it comes to climate change , what is really happening there .
that strategy faltered , owing in part to american intransigence under president george w. bush , and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the u.s. had never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord simply requested that countries limit their voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by a specified amount . thawing siberian permafrost would free up vast amounts of methane . as a result , the vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , might become unlivable . earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories aimed at achieving legally binding emission-reduction agreements , at least for the industrialized countries that produced most of today ’s greenhouse gases in the atmosphere .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for creating a mechanism for making european preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultations where threats to any nation ’s security are at stake . of course , the blame must also be shared with all of europe ’s political class , its civil-society institutions , and the media . but the blame must also be shared with europe ’s entire political class , its civil-society institutions , and the broader public . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine might have been thwarted . while i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is very hard not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close .
and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria leads when it comes to greenhouses . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , the time has come to hit the accelerator . sweden , which runs an industrial workstream with india , has made the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free ( lng ) plant integrated with its electricity grid . and progress is hardly limited to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria leads when it comes to greenhouses .
one outcome of the deal is the paradoxical-sounding familiarity with difference . prejudice has tended to decline as participation rises . because immigrants participate in america ’s ’s economic and political arenas , americans are employed to various kinds of people , and so distinguish those differences that might damage the country from those that do not . it has long been in no one ’s interest to realize that live-/let-live pragmatism . tolerance for other people ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s religion is the price paid for tolerance of one ’s own .
based on our own experience -- in mexico that has opened up foreign investment and commerce , and in canada that is a prominent aid donor to the us and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and resolutely enforced . this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential . entrepreneurial energy is already there : the visiting tiniest town in the poorest country on a market day , and you will see the private sector in action . this is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark imploch brown has asked us to lead the new commission on the private sector and development , we agreed . if small companies could continue to expand beyond villages square , they might drive the growth of their countries better than any aid agency .
so far , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president 's psyche . regardless of when a second summit occurs , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america 's expense in the meantime . so far , his ego-stroking to trump has shown that he has a good handle on the president of america 's psyche . and yet , even if he does this , kim on his own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows ways to command the stage and bring trump to the table . there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit .
it has also turned the heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended to preempt popular protests ) . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . all of this has created emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly by young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” meanwhile , the state is failing to secure essential security : according to july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was assassinated in the broad daylight at the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , to efforts to contain his car mirrors with a stolen home .
but whenever the kingdom has made an effort to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment has risen . the challenge of job creation for the saudis may seem like an riches issue . under the current incentives system , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will actually destroy the jobs that the saudis have occupied . some would argue that all of the kingdom needs to do so is to substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions . but simple substitution wo n’t do .
but for money to have value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously with barter . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not just contradicts the very concept of money ; it is an entirely idiotic person . the whole point of money is that it enables parties to transact without having to barter . but so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency might substitute for fiat money . in the u.s. , the reason that we do not use euros or yen alongside dollars is obvious : doing so would be senseless and so would make the economy so much less efficient .
this means ensuring that disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism fail to present a long-term systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . a cool war threatens to undermine such efforts , because confronting america at the bargaining table requires that china strengthen its own position above all else . a trade war has thrown this lesson into sharp relief . minimizing the falling-out will require the two sides to recognize that , in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own positions become self-defeating as they undermine global stability and dynamism . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dried than the cold war .
to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , the international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a shared and consistent system for tracking , reporting , and verification ; and deliver strong economic incentives globally . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could enable rapid reductions in greenhouse gases , by 2030 . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” ” ” ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus depending on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in the us , a country exceeding the worldwide average for per capita emissions would pay a specified sum on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that focus on climate change might have , including reduced local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation .
by purchasing government bonds for cash , the central bank can meet demand , pushing down the prices of the money supply . thus , expansionary monetary policy via the standard open-market operations by the central bank is the first item on the checklist of what to do during the financial crisis . i was also right to say that all but the diminutiae of economists approve of central-bank guarantees for system stability , in order to prevent the risk of a collapse of the payments system from turning into a first-order estimate that boosting demand for cash to unnatural levels . thus , three months ago , i argued that all but the diminutive and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to contain total nominal spending permanently in a downturn and i was right . in the absence of excess cash demand , there would be no excess supply of bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the economy in a productive capital .
even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the wall , accusing the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead amassing “ russia ’s faltering ” in the 1990s to assert “ the monopoly and domination of the world , ” including through nato enlargement . for starters , it rests on the assertion that at the height of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west has promised that no nato expansion would emerge . the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan , america ’s originator of cold war-era containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s on precisely those causes .
america 's market share of global equity valuations is at its highest level ever , a remarkable statistic , given america 's declining share of global economic activity . seen against this background , “ some ” is imf code for the united states . even though its october global economic outlook presents a positive image of global growth , the imf , undoubtedly still conscious of the panglossian view that it offered in 2006 , now seems to be saying that the world economy is “ “ vulnerable to abrupt tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear to be stretched in some markets . ” so , too , the international monetary fund has gotten its act . how should we consider all of these warnings ?
accordingly , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as of june 7 , turned out to be € 1 : $ 1,0590 . i have also developed what i have called the adjusted gsdeer , which corrects a “ equilibrium ” rate on the ongoing economic cycle by accounting for factors like the true interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone . given that the dollar has been trading on roughly $ 1.1250 against the euro on this day , this suggests that the dollar is indeed roughly 6 % weaker than it should be . which interest rates are best served by making comparisons a matter of debate , because it has the effect of quantitative easing ; but i do not see any good reason not using a ten-year government-bond differential , adjusted for inflation expectations . now , of course , 6 % is not a particularly large difference ; and this finding may not mean nothing at all .
despite a messy default , this fresh start generated an impressive turnaround . the kazakh government , scrambling to support its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up hope to get its money back . but , – and here ’s a point , with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and able to promote economic growth . the party came on a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments , hoping to get their money back . the banks have defaulted on their loans , and creditors have taken up great “ haircuts ” ” ( reducing principal value ) .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time we ’ve gotten just 8 % of india ’s 760,000 children . when a girl holds up the book up to an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , when adolescent mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda are making education for their children their top priority , and when a lights seen from space might include child clusters huddled by candlelight efforts to read and study – knowledge that an education ’s moment has arrived on . yet , most important , that is education at its moment , as the world ’s young people insist on it . only $ 230 per person is made available for fundamental needs like water , food , and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child progresses through education . this year needs to be education a moment , a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that is critical to achieving the un ’s sustainable development goals , including falling maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening up our brains to issues of gender equality .
and secretary of state james baker used it to transcend the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or halt the syrian civil war on its own . and secretary of state james baker used that it to overcome the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel .
by appeasing terrorist groups in this manner , the world ’s most powerful nation-states give the green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but around the world . if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves , as does the humanitarian values that they use to justify their own “ humanitarian '' interventions . kosovo is a region that is much smaller than afghanistan . so , before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to crush , it should eliminate terror in a place in which the un itself rules . if it does not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit itself just as much as the humanitarian values that it explores to justify its own `` humanitarian '' interventions .
the view that an individual gene could account for a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself . as time passed and scientific knowledge accumulated -- much of it from a fruit fly -- the true complexity of its relationship between genes and characteristics became starkly apparent . if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior becomes so complex , could it really be any less so with humans ? soon a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” may all fall prey to individual genes as well . whether describing genes for the color of flower in pea plants , or the shape of the fruits fly , geneticists in the beginning of the last century believed that every gene governed one unique characteristic .
like boxing and poker , this is a soft , restrained , private form of warfare . and , after all , one can not have the final , utopian society without a definitive , scientific theory of human behavior coupled with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the entire cause . in fact , capitalism has been familiar for centuries , regardless of how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs were formulated . and , among other things , capitalism has been a struggle between individual people over control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , these are a soft , restrained , private form of warfare .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained talks , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone lenders , which included a package of immediate reform and a quadrupling of the funding program for the rescue program . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be deeply disruptive , explaining why there is little support within the country . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , a compromise does not rule out the need for deeper negotiations on the new financial-assistance program , which was supposed to be introduced by the end of june . in that case , the subject is greece ’s exit costs ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone , a prospect that was widely discussed in the media throughout the recent negotiations , with considerable speculation over the stance taken by various players , particularly greek and german governments . in any negotiation , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior – hence the outcome – is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each .
cnn has reported that it is “ neither equitable nor free . ” but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , either . consider kazakhstan , where a population of five million casts the country on the ballot in september of its lower house of parliament . elections in outsiders from democracy have never been pretty much popular because afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and as every election in iraq is likely . western media have judged the elections failure .
and , unlike many equally poor countries in the developing world , india already possesses a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a number of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in trying to provide such public goods . as india went off with the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) , disputed the 2004 elections on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining ” india shining . it is largely a question of the provision of public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . satisfying the demand for such goods by money is itself a harbinger of growth . but it is also a reliable road that creates tremendous additional activism , because it increases trade among related fields , and for myriad firms , restaurants and hotels to spring along the way .
a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension interventions and further increases in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give adequate incentive to restructure , while privatization arrived . yet the berlusconi government did so next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure unfit for new challenges , owing both to solid size and to specialization within traditional industries , as well as to low educational levels and r & d. with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could pursue coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity .
despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the high-technology rise of it . if not quite represent an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . consider what is happening on a number of floors potentially high office buildings in accra , ghana ’s capital . africans speak english , type at least 50 words per minute on a computer , take data from the paper claims made by america ’s health insurers via a satellite in electronic foundations , put it into new digital-form , and ship them back into the u.s. . there are some 1,500 africans who process american health-insurance claims – working around the home in three shifts .
the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully by pooling european national interests . the westphalian system had been replaced by the cold war-era bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested on the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . yet the westphalian system was ultimately destroyed by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which were actually european wars of world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , the europeans , even europe ’s victorious allies , suffered an effective loss of national sovereignty . the objective of this effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and a hegemonic head butting .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . if it is more forthright about risk , there is a good chance that some periphery countries might experience difficulties plugging the holes , and will require help from the north . because many banks hold large proportions of the eurozone ’s government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly understates risk , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished .
venture capital firms now spend an average of $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . they could also fund competition among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovation in this field . they should expand the scope of their investment to include ai-enabled mental-health-care technology . here , too , researchers should apply fully representative groups to include ai-enabled tech firms to adhere to further innovations in ai . to be sure , such ai initiatives cost money as much as $ 30 trillion annually .
consider , for example , the harvard university growth laboratory , which i founded in 2006 , following two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have been working at more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the laboratory looks a bit like a teaching and research hospital . yet a teaching-hospital model might be effective at public policy as well . it focus both on research , and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” too .
the fledgling international trade regime had to start from recognizing that it is neither feasible nor desirable to curtail policy space countries need to design their own economic and social models . as one american enterprise historian put it , so did americans “ “ “ “ pirates ” like china today , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” as one historian of america ’s business leaders put it , the americans “ were too pirates . america had its patent laws , but they were protected by only america ’s citizens . any sensible international trade regime had to start out with the recognition that it was neither feasible nor desirable for restricting policy space countries to design their own economic and social models .
but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power would start to take shape , giving rise to the emergence of a new international system . making all of these changes will be challenging , too . yes , one can debate a third way or a half way or two and a half way , or one in which three and a half are essentially marginal , but those are essentially marginal debates . there exists today a basic , even on the occasion of a ritualistic , consensus on the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organizing with some freedom-of-market form with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private entrepreneurship as the basis of economic activity . but if the world does move in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power will start to take shape , and that is the start of a new international system .
developing bhe would require a new private-sector investment platform structured to give bespoke returns to its various participants . it would offer returns close to those that are passed through equity investment , but with some exposure to sovereign risk profiles in particular . risk would be further mitigated through the participation of very large , influential investors – including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions – . finally , the regulated nature of cash flow would enable better , more pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public capital could offer . public contributions , probably backstopped by multilateral lenders , would provide projects with something close to sovereign-risk profiles .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have already signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold small amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but such actions might amount to less mark the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . depending on how soon china opened its capital account and consumed its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future . and countries ’ desire to maintain sound relationships with china may not be discounted , owing to its rising economic might . capital inflows that will undoubtedly increase in the years ahead are driven largely by investors ’ interest in diversification and high-yield seeds , rather than a country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s financial markets are relatively under-developed and beset with substantial risk .
but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s ’s ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will not look kindly on any backtracking on former mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . amlo will almost surely maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues while retreating into mexico ’s traditional , archaic counter-interventionist stance on regional diplomacy . the peasants in guerrero are cultivating amapola for the cartels rather than its own livelihoods . there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba .
the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of the congo , following the enactment of a law authorizing president josé kabila to prolong his tenure . on the heels of its success in sudan , it needs to resist “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , because it sets itself more firm as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . the au should have shown leadership in that area , following interventions that buttress a constitutional democracy along the lines of its agenda 2063 agenda . in 2015 , empowered by the new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term under violent protests . the au has defied military coups in the past .
fertility rates among immigrant workers are typically higher than in native-born europeans or north american families . higher birth rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect a huge number of immigrant families in each country . but a rising number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise birth rates . an aging us population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance . for example , germany has a large population of guest workers , but few settle there with their families ; most leave their children in their home country .
the real culprits at the top of these firms rarely need to worry about . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go unremarked . the news only made a ripple effect on america ’s own media , but now it turns out that the company is doing very little to change that . the few that are noted typically end up shining a slap on the wrist with the company , which means that its shareholders will picking up the humble fine . to be sure , there have not been consequences now for cheney .
for much of our evolutionary history , human beings and our primate ancestors were living in a small group , in which violence could be inflicted only in an up-front and personal manner by slamming , pushing , suffocating , and/or using a stick or stone as a club . this was not the case with people asked to make judgments concerning relatively “ impersonal ” breaches , such as by hurling a switch . moreover , a minority of subjects who considered the right to push an outsider off a footbridge , has given way longer to this line of judgment than to those who said that doing so would be wrong . why , then , would our judgment and our emotions vary in this manner ? greene discovered that people asked themselves to make moral judgments about “ personal ” breaches , like pressing a stranger off a footbridge , showed increased activity in those areas associated with emotions .
investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , sterling takes years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , and then other partners as well . after all , political uncertainty is high and no prospect for a general election to decide it anytime soon . in 1949 , britain found itself on the same subject , with a trade deficit over the united states and a weak investor ’s confidence . in september of that year , sterling had again devalued because it had stood at 18 years for a while , by 30 % .
indeed , relations with israel improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than at any time in recent history , a move orchestrated by miller but embraced by refah . once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and activism . it remained a vital member of nato , in this way . turkey continued to allow the u.s.-led “ operation provide comfort ” against iraq to use turkish bases . power de facto led refah to compromise rather than to extremes .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s occupation , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ” ” ” ostensibly confined to individual members . the play is not salacious , and contains no coarse language , but was nonetheless eight years for it to be staged . the play is not salacious , containing no coarse language , but the fact that it could be staged nonetheless . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution ’s feminist standpoint .
the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s schools and universities are failing to produce enough engineering graduates to thrive in tomorrow ’s workplace . nairobi/paris , africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis that portends profound economic , political , and social fault lines . each year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa ; but only about three million do not find a job . but the crisis can be averted , and one solution is perhaps as straightforward as turning on the lights . while the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create an additional 25 million new jobs within a decade through its youth employment jobs in africa ’s initiative , it does not readily tell where these opportunities will come from .
but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever accept that design , as was made clear under the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . now , plans are afoot to “ promote the future of peace and security in the middle east ” through a us-polish conference in warsaw where the palestinians are not going to participate . let us be clear : the two-state solution does not mean accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending that colonial enterprise . refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s team ’s statements go in a very different direction , more in line with israel ’s ’s ’s ’s official position : one state and two systems . they failed to reckon with the fact that palestinian people have a dignity and national pride , just as any other nation will insist that they can not be treated accordingly .
he certainly never embraced israel as a political cause , because so many other american jewish politicians had . in any case , this is not as though avoiding talking about israel is a departure for sanders . nor does israel seem to figure much in its own brand of jewish identity relative to that of the holocaust than anything else . in this regard , sanders is no different than many other american jews . despite being spoken about a matter where needed , he has generally not been outspoken on issues concerning the country .
for trump , as for us president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business . the deal appears to have become the foundation of a wonderful new friendships , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , portraying his support for an israeli-palestinian peace . the deal appears to have become the foundation of a wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and reported support for an israeli-palestinian peace .
because gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding down gold had done nothing to make up for the decline in the dollar ’s value . tips , or at the equivalent of other governments , providing secure inflationary hedges and explicit currency futures can compensate for exchange-rate risk . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflation and exchange-rate risk . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate might have been able to offset the exchange-rate loss through the purchase of yen futures . the same is true of a euro-based investor that would not have gained by holding gold but could have compensated the dollar ’s decline by buying european futures .
south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , korea , japan , thailand , and many other countries now are buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation , and hence to defend their exports . but is china really blamed for the eruption of the global currency war ? europe , too , became nervous after the euro ’s exchange rate skyrocketed to over $ 1.40 , far beyond purchasing power parity ( ppp ) exchange rates of $ 1.17 . the united states is now taking drastic steps against china and is imposing provisions for a trade war . munich , because china pegged its under-valued currency , the renminbi , on the dollar , each dollar weakening in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant weakening the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies .
it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for tracking incomes and wealth . to that end , a particularly important milestone will come with revising , owing over the next three years to the united nations national account system . government statistics agencies should be publishing the revenues and wealth levels of the top 1 % , just 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the efficient taxes paid to such groups . for these reasons , we need researchers , media , and civil-society organizations to engage more directly . but , while these sources may offer valuable insights , they do not meet the standards of methodological rigor and the conceptual clarity upon which informed public conversation should be based .
eliminating federal health-insurance coverage subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ” ” ” ” would save the government just over $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of federal spending . but those subsidies are mostly paid for with their own dedicated taxes . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . still , health-care reform , as one might say , is fearsomely complicated . it is becoming increasingly obvious that the name changes ( “ trumpcare , ” ” ” ” ” ” anyone ? and one might expect the republican plan to cover fewer people ; but much of its substance remains the same .
during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , the national mining corporation , and a portion of the electric sector . since the campaign began , lula has shown strength , particularly following the right 's favored candidate , roseana sarney , has crashed and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered a cash load in her husband 's offices . mr. and mrs. sarney were finally absolved by all charges , but not soon after enough to rescue her candidacy . social inequalities heightened as well , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all soared sharply . during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , the national mining corporation , and parts of the electric sector .
for $ 450 million , you could also buy 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria , among others . give direct cash transfers boosts recipients of food security , mental health , and assets . ( for all of these interventions , the numbers are likely to be rather smaller , because the charity impact calculator is not designed for such large amounts , and so ignores that the costs will rise as soon as the needs of those who are easiest to reach have been met . ) when a person chooses to buy “ salvator ” mundi ” rather than resume sights on nine million additional people , what would that say about their values ? in case , consider that people who receive such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has shown that they do not .
mail managers also manage incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as specified by the recipient , collecting a credit card from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payments systems as they emerge ) . the recipient is not likely to view the complexities of the us ; much of that will eventually be resolved in the background . but such challenges will diminish over time ; and , as less mail come home , a higher share of that will be wanted and responded . at the beginning , you may simply set your price on , say , $ 1 , alongside a list of people in which you can reach you for free . there will be lots of glitches in your beginning , say , $ 1 , alongside a plenty of email addresses at people who are able to reach you for free .
it was a mistake to view bannon as a pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as the trump white house rasputin . ( bannon has been convinced that he was behind the recent push to bully mcmaster , mostly by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” ) bannon has been strengthened by the nationalist inclination that has led trump to his daughter , ivanka , and his economic counselors , by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon despises his foreign policy by getting himself on the national security council for some time , until two of the generals in trump ’s administration – the national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now the chief of staff ) – have gotten him out of step . in business and immigration , for example , bannon has acquired philosophy aligned himself with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former trump himself . )
so the creditor countries that led germany sought to do the minimum necessary to keep the euro alive , while borrowers grumbled impotently on germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . no country ’s taxpayers wanted to feel that they were paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . they mistrust each other too much to cooperate . meanwhile , demand in most of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to repay debts , and offering hope to the 25 million unemployed . parochial suspicion was the ultimate impediment to a grand solution .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have had to depreciate by roughly 20 % against the eurozone average , and by roughly 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external-debt sustainability . the french economy , in turn , is suffering , because its corporate customers in southern europe are in trouble . the ecb and the international community , in particular the international monetary fund , have been trying to cope with the crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with government borrowing . low-cost credit ushered in the european fed ’s inflationary economic bubble , which burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated abruptly , and what was left of the thoroughly overpriced equities of economies that had become excessively reliant on foreign financing .
encyclopedias , of course , are never supposed to be read cover for cover . the author opened at the fist page , and follows a set of questions to see how he will arrive at his conclusions . the same happens , even when you read the philosophy , say husserl . if i wanted to figure out whether it could be that napoleon met with kant , i pick up volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 in 1804 . it is possible that the two had to be read .
from one perspective , this is just another case of emotions defeating economic logic . but our emotions are algorithms bequeathed by evolution by which we make majority decisions , including political ones ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of the issue is the sense of “ us . ” what does this mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , libya , switzerland , or any other political entity ? letting them in might produce a better team would not be our team .
the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam that appears at loggerheads with respect to democracy . if a government sprang from an reasonably fair election , and an elected government manages to fill its most essential political offices , the country is perceived as “ electorally competitive . ” that conclusion stems from comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” a close study by the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states nonetheless shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . islam and democracy are commonly assumed to be bitter antagonists .
thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques . on the other hand , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger rightly noted that venter ’s achievement was an technological advance rather than conceptual . other scientists noted that an organism is actually a mere “ semi-synthetic , ” because a synthetic dna ( which comprises only around 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) was introduced into ordinary , or nonsynthetic , bacterium . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . ) globally , understanding the history of “ synthetic biology ” is important , because recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it that in turn affects the technology ’s potential application and diffusion .
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that an era of income convergence has come to an end . the pace of convergence has accelerated further during , and , just after , the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate average differential in per capita income growth rose to just over four percentage points during the 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points before . that process began in the late 1980 ’s , followed by continuous unabated , except during the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . as i argued before , the convergence of emerging countries ’ real per capita incomes , in the aggregate , with advanced-country advanced countries ’ incomes likely to continue on its current trajectory in 2020 . nothing could have come further from the truth .
labour has tried to avoid a constitutional debate on the matter , because any move on the direction of the federal government requires addressing the party of over-representation in the uk ’s own parliament . as for the conservatives , the party allowed its faith in the country ’s union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate about how to modernize the union . this belief has fit into the two major political parties . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling by brexit , we must change the way that we govern ourselves . it is unfair to give an ever more power back to the scottish parliament , while continuing to give labour , which controls the 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , to express disproportionate say over what would happen in england .
and we should work with schools and other learning platforms to help educate people to identify fake or misleading claims . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . at the same time , fact-checkers should not simply focus on tackling fake information , but also on identifying sources of trustworthy information and pinpointing their readers and followers . this means reaching beyond public figures to solicit record corrections , lodging complaints with standards of bodies , and leveraging training to media organizations . this is the approach taken by our organizations , and , as little and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already becoming apparent .
london – one of the most dispiriting features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world of at one $ 23,000 nuclear weapons , and by those who would build more of them or be only too willing to use them , has been consigned to the margins of us politics . us president barack obama has , for his part , grabbed global attention to his prague speech in 2009 , hosting a summit intended to reduce the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . but the nuclear issue still struggles for public resonance and political traction in the us . and he delivered on his major new treaty of arms-reduction with russia , hosted a summit intended to reduce the vulnerability of nuclear weapons-grade and the materials to theft or diversion . it would take the courageous gambler to bet on the ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon .
the report cited a number of state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams , ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” to nowhere , and the “ 44.5 billion ” needed to upgrade drinking-water systems in california . a 2013 report by the american society for civic engineers signaled a pathetic overall grade of d +for its infrastructure . but the state of infrastructure in the us indicates that many decision-makers do not share this view . the report cited a number of state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams , ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges , and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems . it seems self-evident that an advanced economy requires adequate , ongoing investments in public goods .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets ; yet global control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm relative to drugs . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but the mistake is to see prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . whatever is repressed is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations themselves . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets .
for example , the avowed purpose of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect the fish resources by regulating the amounts of fish taken from the sea by allowing the young fish to reproduce , and by making sure that measures are met . ” this is for the best of reasons – the fish that capture when they produce too little will produce a small yield . to see this , consider the north sea cod . as it stands , we have “ fished down ” our stocks until few large , old individuals stay . moreover , the fish wo n’t have a chance to reproduce , undermining the fish stocks entirely .
with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s aspirations as a post-modern autocrat might be his achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for the real thing . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration . but putin ’s aspirations as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel .
it was also the west ’s financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were meant to fend off these excesses . there was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were destined to fend off these excesses . but that vulnerability was mostly created , or , at least , accommodated western banks . likewise , funding from the parent banks that in the early stages of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern european banking systems now looks more like a liability and a possible source of contagion . financing by the parent banks that at the beginning of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern european banking systems now looks like a liability and a possible source of contagion .
what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusively military response can waste resources or do more harm than good . aggrieved countries elsewhere have responded to violent extremism , primarily by clamping down on “ hard ” safety for the first time . add to that the misreading of ethnic and religious diversity , a stir in a large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem . but this strategy has not diminished extremist groups potency or limits their reach .
whether to prohibit cigarette altogether is yet another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime . moreover , wherever health-care costs cost everyone – including those in the us , with its public-health programs for both the poor and the elderly – everyone pays the cost of efforts to treat the diseases caused by the them . nowadays , the tobacco industry is assuming its fight against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . the industry fears that law could be copied in far bigger markets , like india and brazil . it looks bizarre , but to hold that the state might essentially ban selling a product , but might not allow it to be sold merely in packs that carry graphic images of the damage it causes to human health .
the united nations framework convention on disaster preparedness refused even to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states prove precisely how disaster they had been linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations under-resourced disaster relief financing in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million , just 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research for this year . during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , with investments in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , had suffered fewer than ten deaths , according to the un framework convention on climate change . the un ’s climate change policies are not the best way to reduce weather-related consequences .
the g20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the world ’s just-announced us-china emissions target into formal g-20 aid for “ robust and effective action to tackle climate change . ” ( all of this discontented australia ’s conservative host government , which struggled to contain the issue even ; the australian public , by all accounts , was inclined to detract the issue , and promptly brought down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval ratings in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) in particular , leaders ’ focus on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption . other formal outcomes at the g-20 meeting were agreements , backed by more policy detail than most commentators expected .
many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . but now they may be thinking more like louis xvi , the kingxvi , the king who paid his way for the faults of his predecessors . if you wish to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such a magisterial setting as versailles is sure to prove effective . but the reveling in a country ’s monarchical history may be dangerous . can macron learn from his mistakes and reclaim the confidence of french voters , who felt humiliated by him ?
and that is precisely what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve . for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point at which america ’s economy had turned the corner . the change was so notable that many policymakers fell into the v-shaped trap of projecting a fast rebound , particularly in view of america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what turned out to be a protracted and complex us-centric process of recovery . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their us counterparts around the world , urging them to take some form of supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of the most successful periods in global political coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging economies .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . this enormous loss of wealth caused a large and persistent collapse in consumption demand , leading to a spike in unemployment . the stock market has plunged by almost 50 % since its 2007 peak , and continues to fall by almost a third . fear feeds on itself , and the prediction that stocks will lose value has become self-fulfilling . housing wealth in the us has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and is continuing to decline .
that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report outlining the phenomenon ’s spotlight and calling for solutions . if we are to preserve the latter , we must defend the former at all costs . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon , calling for solutions . free , healthy news media are crucial to a well-functioning democracy . as the us media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will decline only .
this will change very rapidly , particularly in view of the possibility of nato ’s troop surge in afghanistan . the political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back for now . from then on , she will require a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills . moreover , the victory of the black and yellow has defined the alternative : the red , the dark red , and the greens . so far , merkel has had to cope with a weak or non-existent opposition .
fifth , we must reform how we manage our water sources and water infrastructure in order to keep that precious resource can use repeatedly and on a city-wide range . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewable resources ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , and companies to reduce the amount of energy they waste . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transport and consume energy . instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land , by encouraging dependence on public transportation and making our streets convenient and safe for walking ( particularly on women and the disabled ) .
how netanyahu finagled that outcome , renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlements on occupied territories , which a genuine agreement with israel is impossible . but the celebration is likely to be short-lived . in recent years , netanyahu ’s ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , with compelling palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible . it has surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party gained a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its principal opponent , the center-left zionist union . ramallah , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu , surely has reason to celebrate .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . simply put , trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as automatic eviction of russia from an swift financial-transfer system , should it renege on any aspect of the deal . simply put , savchenko believed that the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless .
owing to a research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized donation of data to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystery . in ongoing work with dna bahar , michele coscia , plus frank neffke , we have been able to establish some interesting stylized facts . before anyone starts slashing travel budgets , let ’s attempt to make sense of why we need moving people rather than information . why waste precious work time at air , security checks , and waiting for our baggage ? more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , but volume is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of its population than another has only around 70 % more entrepreneurial travel .
too many italians shrugged off their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , figuring out that he was about to come away at having done little harm . but that did not go away and did plenty of harm . the price of liberty , the americans are fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount . too many italians have shrugged off their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , figuring out that he would go out soon , doing little harm .
specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a collection of “ realistic ” practices to reduce the red tape perceived to be hampering investment in extractive industries , the very industries on which the economy should become less reliant . the new law gravely weakens peru ’s capacity to regulate land use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental-impact assessments . furthermore , peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” has become an image that some cabinet members have been trying to cultivate , the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment , and economic-growth prospects . and , though the government recognizes the need to reform itself , its approach is all wrong . peruvian government now has a very real problem in its own way .
but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of hard-won freedoms , and the intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial administration , means individual liberty . when pundits weigh heavily on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests are placing at risk what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy . the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who had been herself imprisoned and tortured under the army regime , is that brazilians are aware of exactly what is at stake . ( still less noticed , the role that female empowerment and feminism have played in development . )
how , then , can nato help here ? directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do a lot . the eu now has a geopolitically alliance that sets democratic standards for new members and aspirants to them . nato , for example , is no longer just a military alliance . no romanian government can neglect these norms altogether .
one might have expected us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition ’s leader , juan guaidó , as the interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision in order to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of the class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mob that bought the military ’s loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling , and drug-trafficking deals . with the number of political prisoners spiked , maduro ’s venezuela joined ranks among china , cuba , and turkey . the mafia ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally .
the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal , especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . if it loosens monetary policy further , say , cutting the banks ’ reserve requirement ratio , momentum for restructuring could disappear ; and there is no guarantee that an additional liquidity flow would flow into the real sector . so far , however , lower-financing efforts have had limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains near 7 % , whereas economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % a year in the last three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . at the same time , the pboc is facing a dilemma .
drafted with the reference for the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the palestinian leadership ’s much-needed symbolic success , including a framework from which to restart negotiations , a longstanding palestinian demand . it would also address indirectly the israeli government ’s demand that palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” while such an approach would surely fall short of the maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters , outlined in may , by us president barack obama . drafted with the reference of the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of the palestinian state and the state for the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed borders and security arrangements . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy .
robotization and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal policymakers , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus about this issue than about taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others in the fields of robotics . given that ongoing change in us manufacturing has already started this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that it might require some form of compromise on robots to pay for human services . given that ongoing change in us manufacturing has already started to be the subject of much debate ; but , apparently , some form of compromise will have to be made .
whenever they go bathing along , they follow the same path , raising first concerns over what will happen if argentina pays back its external debt , and then inevitably service its debt , under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and the u.s. . but in fact , in argentina everything remains the same or become worse . heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same sea doubles us economic ministers insisting on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . “ everything , everything , does n’t make all this . ” whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what will happen if argentina pays back its foreign-currency debt and then inevitably paying back the debt under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and the u.s. .
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are critical to addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . we ’ve seen this on topics ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging crisis in humanitarian-aid finance . and yet rarely have our current institutions – including , most importantly , the un – been frailer . the un is not broken ; it is in trouble , particularly because more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . while the un still possesses many strengths , it also has clear structural vulnerabilities .
mass-action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , following the release of a loose global plan . the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest was apparently taken at the european social forum ’s meeting in florence in november last year . in ninety days , these organizers turned out to be over five million protestors around the world . the internet allowed for rapid worldwide dissemination of organizational planning at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . there are three keys to this phenomenon :
according to america ’s southern command spokesperson , overseeing gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believe that obama ’s pledge to close gitmo increases . how better to memorize this decision than to build a prison boom ? indeed , they are cleared for leaving , with only obama ’s failure to fulfill his promise , and america ’s congress ’s failure to legislate the transmission , which keeps them there . how better to memorialize this choice than with a construction boom ? the new facility to which the money is set to house 106 prisoners ( a precise number is uncertain ) , who have been neither trying nor charged .
flows of technology and innovation : enhanced technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen disputes resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the gains brought by an enhanced china ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ’s ; the world also has a choice to make . at the same time , the world can determine how to facilitate more or fewer flows of technologies that are increasingly subject to security reviews . according to our smartphones , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the degree by which technology flows reveal innovation and productivity growth .
whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is out of the eurozone , has essentially recovered . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen has argued in 2007 , engineering considerations are making exiting the eurozone more difficult , expensive , and dangerous . but that is just one side of the ledger . applying to iceland as our measuring stick , the cost to greece of not exiting the eurozone amounts to 75 % of one year ’s gdp and counting . it is hard to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even a quarter of that .
the fact that maliki is following the example of president george w. bush ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite war in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from iraq over his first term in office . in that , obama follows the example set by president george w. bush to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite war in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his first term to disengage from iraq ’s iraqi political class . last march , as rumors circulated of the loss of the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be under threat if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recount , rather than a candidate , in his capacity as commander-in-chief . there is only one way to explain america ’s administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite war in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage with iraq during his first term .
in its emphasis on signaling ’s importance , economics enters postmodernist lands . when one believes that narrative , one acts in ways that produce it . in fact , i do n’t believe that osborne himself has ever attached to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . people start to behave as though the books were balanced , ignoring the fact that they are not . the signal , in this instance is the promise of balancing the books , creating a reality .
for its part , novartis recently announced that it would invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years , in order to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . in response to the dwindling donor funds , ghanaian governments have brought private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent financing gaps , but will end up helping to lead a sustainable , indigenous effort to eliminate malaria from the country . but it is also a once-in-a-moment opportunity . this is a challenging moment in the fight against malaria . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates .
worse still , a factional conflict would undermine further developments in a post-saddam iraq ’s identity . if sunnis come to believe that the shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they will have little stake in maliki ’s success , and might again start pursuing their own geopolitical interests through other means , provoking another surge of sectarian violence . if sunnis come to believe that the shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they will have little stake in maliki ’s success , and might again begin to pursue their own geopolitical interests through other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example in this regard . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that operates at the shadow of a grand shia-dominated , militant organization .
that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let down the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean that there is limited hope for addressing seemingly chronic us trade deficits , as well as the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances – as long as the american does n’t start to save again . the american ran trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that is unable to address effectively through country-specific remedies . alas , this plot is about thicken . trumponomics looks likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead .
their tactic has been to obstruct a clean review of the iraq disaster by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to endorsing the american occupation of iraq . meanwhile , the supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy advocating the lessons of the us-led invasion of iraq . across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is viewed as just a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated the armies of three arab countries , conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now the jordanian newspaper al-ra columnist al-ra “ i. ” arab intellectuals and , indeed , the broader arab public , are now busy defending the same old , totalitarian thinking in iraq .
given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross resource misallocation . and , while the recovery in the advanced economies has boosted us exports , persistent over-capacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it was in 2012 , has been causing investment growth , albeit still accelerating , to decline to its nadir in the last 11 years . in principle , however , china ’s chronic current-account surpluses are problematic . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital signifies a gross resource misallocation . meanwhile , its investment-income deficit might be a product of its rising investment-income deficit .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . this “ earth overshoot day ” has moved forward with the astonishing two months of the past 20 years , and will arrive sooner rather than ever before . madrid – by july 29 , according to the global footprint network , humanity will use the earth ’s ’s ’s resource budget for just about a year . while humanity will have caused environmental consequences manifests itself in a number of ways : climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects .
few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . the communist government managed to stay in power after tiananmen , not just through brute force . and popular discontent over official corruption and political oppression amply demonstrated in every region of china in 1989 . the semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among the educated middle class , was bought with the promise of more wealth . the economic boom is the single greatest source of legitimacy left by the one-party state .
the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . likewise , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or have struggled financially on the basis of housing costs ; that figure is projected to rise to $ 440 million by 2025 . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue to resonate in emerging-market countries . even in an advanced-country economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . but , as pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls around the world , this is no longer sustainable .
and it is terrifying to the american people who , until recently believed that or perhaps had hoped , would live in a us-based republic established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt . all of this fear mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare . listen even briefly , one gets a sense that mexicans and china work with wall street to forge the lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful office , and that muslims want to blow everyone up . berkeley – one need not be particularly good at listening to smelling the dog whistles being used during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . all this fear mongering is scarier .
professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , at the title of his recent book , expresses the wish to give “ less to your fathers and more to their sons . ” but if unions are powerful or seniors are in the majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all the labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the problem nor issues of fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully . here is the spectacular delusion of budget and finance ministry in italy . put into these conditions , the problem is always resolved by giving more weight to those with the most political power .
and , like other human rights at the top , this can not be taken for granted . globally , there are now 59 million children and 65 million adolescents . throughout the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents around the world are out of school , and the number of children displaced by conflict is rising even faster . more than 120 million children under the age of five do not complete primary schooling . and , like other human rights , that can not be taken for granted .
moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely being exploited . smallholder farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . and farm gdp growth is more than twice as efficient in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors . but african farmers have been meeting substantial barriers to reaching their potential . on average , they cover less than 10 kilograms of fertilizer per hectare , compared to just 140 kilograms in india .
gm foods have now been on the us market for more than 12 years . but why are developing-country governments rushing their legs ? clearly , most eu governments are not doing this . are the risks so high that they are justifying the suffering that could have been avoided ? gm foods have now been the case for more than 12 years .
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have so much insatiable appetite for debt . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role . of the roughly $ 200 trillion held by world financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some form involved in debt instruments , including bank lending , corporate bonds , and government securities . imperfect information and difficulties in monitoring firms pose considerable obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . the derivatives market surely help spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the fundamental point stands .
nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather to deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s corporate interests may not be aligned with those from china . whereas italy has received about € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) in 55 bri countries over the first ten months of 2018 alone , signing contracts to bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . furthermore , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy has sorely needed , given constrained lending by its banks . indeed , italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) a year , while imports are some € 29 billion .
and their interventions , including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls , have yielded certain short-term benefits , particularly for the poor . after years of economic stagnation and even crises , popular patience has worn thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders in recent decades have stepped up to power on the promise of leveling the playing field . but such arrangements have often been plagued by populism , and ultimately have done more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social-welfare programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals .
even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , published a thursday afternoon statement that he was “ distressed ” by mattis ’s departure ( a major sign , many believe , of mcconnell ’s private concern about trump ’s effect on the republican party . mattis ’s cronies explained in televised debate that what most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only about the need to influence policy ; about the fact that his remaining in the cabinet was enacted as an affirmation by trump , a position that he can no longer bear . members of congress , for their part , expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . his explicit resignation letter made it clear that he challenged not only on syrian blunder , but on a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion with allies and adversaries ; his willingness to abandon friends like the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances like nato . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with an unwanted side effect of harming international business in china . the government has been strengthening its security system and mired in a ubiquitous system of supervision cameras . yet china ’s top priority is not just to perpetuate economic growth . the regime is set to prove to the world that china , again a global power , can stage spectacular displays , and that its voice will be upheld . rather , it is to try to stimulate growth while protecting its power .
he will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader , or an internationalist right-leaning one . at a time of ceaseless economic disruption , that will be all the more momentous . at a time of ceaseless economic disruption , that will be all the more important . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a powerful , internationalist bent . if globalization , in its various dimensions , is to be backed by a popular majority , then it will need to be accompanied by modernized social policies that provide effective help to those in need .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue losses from the outright prohibition of smoking : electronic cigarettes . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently highlighted , “ if only 1 % of china ’s ’s ’s ’s smoking population had morphed into e-cigarette packs , that will mean around 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . but , despite major advances in china ’s e-cigarette industry , shenzhen province has housed around 900 facilities , up 200 % since 2012 , accounting for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . given that e-cigarettes simply heat the nicotine solution to manufacture inhalable vapor , release none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoking , make them the ideal nicotine-delivery system for cooking smokers searching or being forced – to cut or halt their tobacco intake .
even if a us government attempts to comply with its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might not get the desired outcome . agreeing to quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . because there are no valid sanctions , or any punishment for noncompliance , when push comes to shove , governments may simply be able to make the right changes . but countries automatically adherence to these targets as a sacrificing : in an effort to reduce emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , and gdp would fall by $ z billions . the reason the un ’s climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas , centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed .
declining trade costs allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with goods that are processed and value added in multiple countries along the value chain . while china provides just 4 % of value added , it supplies core components to apple at low prices . this would give chinese smartphone firms the opportunity to seize market share from the major players . in fact , while china provides just 4 % of value added , it supplies the core components to apple at record-low prices . this would give chinese smartphone businesses an opportunity to seize market share from the major players .
third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a sign of governance problems . in firms with high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for a ceo ’s length in a service ) is lower . finally , firms with a larger ceo pay slice are more likely to award their ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for a ceo ’s ’s length of a service ) at the lower end of their board . lower sensitivity for performance turnover reflects less willingness on a part of a board of directors to discipline the ceo .
if europe is to become one , if the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies -- which are in the interest of all of europe -- a multitude of vital tasks must be made , within new democracies as well as with respect to the european and atlantic communities . any weighty occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent . to start , europeans must foster a community in the postcommunist countries by restoring civil society . for a living society can not be restructured from above . there is only one europe without diversity .
the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders not to back down , the sooner a conflict will take place . that approach provides the best chance of bringing an end to the current confrontation , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will merely prolong the conflict . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia will need to earn back the confidence it has violated , demonstrate its commitment to abide by the treaties , and the international behavioral norms to which it has agreed . the eu and the us must remain firm today and united in their policy toward russia .
at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo heightened market pressures . today , greece ’s european lenders appear ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist that they pick up some crumbs from the country ’s ’s ’s pensioners . but we are running a tenth of that … . ” should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never again believe europe ’s longevity , either . nine times out of ten , nothing seriously will happen , only moderately distress by individuals or groups .
for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . but , at closer inspection , things are n’t that simple . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy , in which wealth determines status , or a gerontocracy , in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts as inherited titles and properties . in fact , most of those at the top reach include not only civics and the judiciary , but also the politics , entrepreneurship , and academia that used to be the graduates of famous grandes écoles . so meritocracy sounds preferable , at least at first sight , with regard to finance .
most societies recognize the moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . as a result , america is squandering some of its most rewarding assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities . but in america , more is being spent on educating wealthy college students rather than educating the poor . some countries have even imposed a constitutional mandate for equality on educational opportunity . for example , at america ’s most elite colleges , some 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the us population , whereas 74 % come from the top quarter .
for decades , le pouvoir used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves were centered in the south , and thus were lost when south sudan seceded in 2011 . now the au has been threatening sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to a civilian authority . and now , political stability is gone , too . even as sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressures , they have already been losing ground .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is a daunting one , particularly given constraints on key resources like water and agricultural land . yet questions about such farms ’ vital economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world food supply include genetic engineering and industrialization with additives and chemicals . now , a third solution is emerging : vertical farming facility . academic studies find that locally cultivated vertical farms , stacked greenhouses that use man-made light to grow crops , can generate substantial savings , which might then pass through consumers .
pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies of democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . what this means is that retirement and tax institutions must be designed to take a better account of the changing circumstances confronting diverse generations , rather than making the fixed promises – which , most likely , can not be kept , anyway -- of some pay in the future . still , we must confront intergenerational issues squarely at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . what this does mean is that the problem is political . our pension systems and our national budgets must be based on the `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreads systematically over generations .
this can only make europe ’s sovereign-debt problem worse and weaken its already meager growth prospects . but what is proposed now will make investment lending even less attractive and increase incentives to target sovereign risk in the banking sector . lower funding costs for government debt seem like a net gain to benefit society , because the government then saves money on debt-service costs and can keep taxes lower . but any gains from lower taxes will do more than compensate for private-sector job losses , which , facing increased financing costs , will invest less , in turn stoking economic growth and reducing government revenues . many steps in recent years have been taken to reinforce banking regulation .
to effect change in israel , the americans are triggering various trial balloons . the plo has succeeded in obtaining european support for the unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . instead , the americans have their own vision of how to achieve a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major obstacle . the only obstacle that remains to palestinian leaders ’ interests is america ’s . when palestinians were asked mitchell to ask for assurances that an american would support such a declaration of statehood if the talks were to fail , mitchell responded that such an agreement would make negotiations senseless .
but few laws are in place to address cell uses , tissues , and genes . its physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s bloodless , without his knowledge or consent , set treaties , and sell rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to manufacture drugs from the “ mo ” cell lines . these old tensions have assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue draining a entrepreneurial imagination . the most well-known case concerning the body as a property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at the ucla drug school of medicine at the end of 1976 . the commercial calculus behind this business sometimes triggered riots until anatomy laws permitted the bodies of the executed murderers and the unclaimed dead to be used , thus reassuring middle and the upper class individuals that their bodies would not participate .
but germans , undaunted by it all , simply continue to celebrate one great soccer party , with its newfound friends from around the world . fans don not only of their peoples ’ flags , but also of a fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries ’ color . in berlin , as in other big german cities , taxi drivers sport their drivers ’ flags ’ home countries , from angola to saudi arabia , around the world . in fact , the flags of many nations fly alongside germany are also being put in place . the black , red , and gold of the germans tricolor adorns the whole country as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones .
to stop the ebola outbreak from escalating further , the relevant actors , from health workers to government officials , must once again engage with the affected communities , winning back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proved , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in the space of just 100 days . thisharsharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national staple immunization coverage fell to below 30 % . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to rise .
at an anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with representatives from business and civil society , will have a critical opportunity to act upon that recognition . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or royalties for the use of natural resources is stolen at the source , or the private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of corporate cronies , the populations are incapable of recognizing their potential . indeed , corruption is being decried across cultures and histories as well . for starters , corruption cripples development prospects . it has existed as long as government does ; but , like other crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with devastating consequences for the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens .
the protests began when the government sought to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned a conviction by former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , yingluck ’s brother , and ptp ’s founder , who had been overthrown by the army in 2006 , on trumped-up corruption charges and abuse of power . in reality , the street protests intensified , fueled by a new impeachment vote . but yingluck ’s subsequent effort to backtrack on an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , yingluck ’s government refused to accept the constitutional tribunal ’s ruling against a bill to amend the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber . the protests began , when the government tried to enact amnesty legislation that would have failed to mollify the opposition ’s democratic party .
new presidents from the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank will be appointed , with a new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy being chosen . eu member states are more divided now than ever before , even on the most fundamental issues about the european project . if the nationalist euroskeptic parties become europe ’s largest group , those appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . moreover , east europeans are increasingly dublin against the west . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by resurgent nationalism .
in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few health facilities that communities could have done without them . freetown , sierra leone , donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in national health systems . but , while rushing to construct more clinics and other health facilities in even remotest regions , the resulting facilities may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , which has failed to turn out to be genuine . the recent ebola outbreak in west africa highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in the developing world . but , while rushing to construct more clinics and other health facilities in even remotest regions , i saw more than a few health facilities that communities could have done without them .
for example , wilson would likely concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a consumer-led multilateral process . likewise , he would probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes imposed by the richest corporations and households on , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health care . to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , however , his proposed solutions would vary widely . it is indeed problematic that america ’s banks and businesses can export capital , technology , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs .
when i announced the englishnization , only 10 % of our workforces were proficient in english . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are seeking our advice on how to build a global brand headquartered in japanese capital . unsurprisingly , some on my team have been apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the firm , thought that i have been a somewhat lunatic harbor . the goal was to lay the groundwork for a global expansion in a internet-savvy , labor-intensive industrial sector . but in march 2010 , in a move that i believe was the key to our later growth , i announced “ englishnization ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” englishman himself , ” a blueprint to make english our corporate language within two years .
europe ’s second vicious spiral is running from fiscal consolidation to sluggish growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . but that would merely further weaken banks ’ borrowing portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to tighten them . the ecb ’s decision to provide unlimited liquidity to banks does not resolve governments ’ debt problems or makes its intent all the more credible . tax hikes and public-spending cuts still require ; there is no avoiding this reality . but that at least prevents the debt problem from creating banking problems , which in turn worsens the pre-crisis debt problem .
indeed , india now holds some of the world ’s top engineers , us technicians and medical professionals . on the us side , price laws and other ill-considered features of european policy are contributing to a reality that about 60 % of new medicines are up in america , compared to about 40 % just ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less exciting for americans . add economics to that recipe just as well . so america ’s eyes are turning elsewhere : toward china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , or one year out ; and to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people perished across 14 countries , but another isolated andaman tribes that rely on traditional warning systems have suffered none of the known casualties . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have serious consequences . yet , as bolsonaro ’s promises understate , indigenous societies have been pittsburgh directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hundlers , hunter-gatherers , hunter-gatherers , hunts , and other interlopers . with their reverence for – and understanding – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environment sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die far more quickly if we engage suddenly with them , bringing with us the modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies .
of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was mostly usurped by the soviet union , remain especially sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identity than that of other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainty created by the consequences of globalization . that is why it is so difficult to grasp their location today . i have seen firsthand the eagerness and hope of their peoples at that momentous time . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others that were once poland ’s entrance to the european atlantic institutions .
but what , exactly , does that mean ? if we distill the spirit that we infused into international law over those ages and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of common sense . it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over the great many years for the well-being of all . but what , precisely , does that mean ? no particular country or group of countries created international maritime law as it now exists .
for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . when perpetrators of sexual violence are called upon to account in high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its potential purpose can help predict and avert its use . moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals risk being focused on sexualized violence , such as forced pregnancies . of course , effective solutions must consider the local context .
a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members acquiesced to respect for history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent nations . but europe can succeed in this task only if its different constituent cultures do not seal itself off from one another . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively easy to convey . because an enlarged union will become a reality in only two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for a cultural understanding that contributes to the successful integration of the new members . a draft constitution that recently failed to obtain admission to the first round of negotiations not only promises respect for the cultural heritage ; it obliges the union to work actively to protect , maintain , and develop the wealth of europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity .
if successfully implemented , this agenda is likely to reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned the large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , the global saving and consumption patterns have been undergoing profound change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china seeking to restore their internal equilibrium . after all , china has been responsible for saving the side , with the u.s. paying disproportionately on the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese away from america 's ’s ’s ’s ’s creditors . that model presupposes that china develops domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment . doubling its average household income by 2020 , the target set by the chinese communist party ( ccp ) ’s 18th congress in november , is likely to release $ 64 trillion of the renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s vast internal market gradually becoming a new longstanding driver of home and international growth .
i do n’t like quotas either ; they run counter to my belief in meritocracy . after all , four decades of evidence has now revealed that corporations in europe just as the american are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion to top positions , regardless of the fact that they remain an exception to the rule . but when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it looks as though a fairer world must be temporarily mandated . when women do indeed break through to the summit in corporate power , as when , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook , they garner massive attention , precisely because they remain an exception to the rule . i understand reding ’s reticence and her frustration .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed with india for the latest parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i had not even lived in india for many decades , having spent my adult life working abroad . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i have entered a race without a political “ godfather . ” by contrast , all of the other candidates in my constituency , indeed , most of the contenders across the country , have devoted their entire lives to politics , many of them since their student days . i have not been a professional politician ever since .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . in those countries , governing at all levels represents whichever side won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” : half a cosmopolitan , half a communitarian . the fdp abandoned talks out of the frustration that , as its leader , christian lindner put it , “ “ the four main partners ” have no common vision for either modernization or a common basis of trust . but , ultimately , the experiment failed .
for starters , every country needs to define online child trafficking crime and to incorporate it into their national penal codes , together with tough punishments for violators . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their adherents . parents need to build trust bridges to ensure that their children feel can open up about their problems . raising awareness about the issue also is critical , especially in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and age-unappropriate child-care plans can leave children even more vulnerable . all recruitment activities , advertising , and financial transactions involving online child trafficking should also be criminalized .
moreover , communities need to increase access to contraceptives and other sexual-health services ; one route to doing so would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . such reforms are crucial to improving guyana ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have had their lives cut through pregnancy . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and people with specific needs , a often-overlooked segment of youth populations . these spaces should be opened after school and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age populations would prefer to earn income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work . but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a rising share of work over the long term , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . whereas digital job platforms for independent work continue on the early stages of their development , and employ only about 15 % of independent workers , they are proliferating and widening rapidly . at the end of the day , many are low - and middle-income workers who would otherwise be unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and hence employment – would reduce the pool of workers engaged in independent work .
demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize following through on their own . in this they were realists , but they really demanded a measure of civic control over the authorities , both politically and economically . crucially , the protesters did not demand free elections at all . the demand for abolishing censorship was one of polish 's first political slogans march ‘ 68 ' . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ”
first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) and now negative interest rates , one futile effort begotten another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction through chronically weak recoveries , a shift towards negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability , setting the stage for the next downturn . new haven , under what might well have been the ultimate act of desperation , brings central banks abdicating effective control of the very economies that they had been tasked with managing . adopting negative interest rates – originally launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . formerly , emphasis was placed on boosting aggregate demand , first by loosening borrowing costs , but also through spurring wealth effects from an appreciating financial asset .
furthermore , the eu ’s renewables policies have also proven ruinously expensive . as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . this , in turn , encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting european coal , the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not have happened had the pricing mechanism still underpinning climate-change policy . in fact , at the same time , the eu ’s renewables policies proved ruinously expensive .
in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral trade surpluses with other countries . so perhaps china does have a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , but such bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . the task facing the imf is formidable . it will obviously be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances instead of the bilateral imbalance . china might want to keep oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east , with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands , might look more concerned with the gucci handbags than with china ’s massachusetts produced goods .
asked by gallup how they would rate their life aboard a distance from the zero ( worst in terms of life ) to 10 ( the best quality of life ) , the americans in 2018 reacted with the average of 6.9 , down from 7,0 in 2017 and 7.3 during 2006-2008 . the u.s. was the world ’s seventh-most stressed population in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressing than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . these stress measures go into line with another notable finding : america ’s self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . stress , worry , and anger at all hit america ’s highs in 2018 . asked about their emotions previous day , the majority of americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they experienced stress during much of the day ; almost half ( 45 % ) said they felt worried about a lot ; and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said they were feeling anger .
to this end , banks should make their values and culture integral to hiring , firing , and promoting decision-making . staff must understand instinctively what can be done , and what should never be done . constant reminders and repetition are essential . a written code – which emphasizes commercial advantage through ethical conduct and the negative effects of falling short time – is part of that effort , and might help preserve and nurture a culture ; but a code alone is not sufficient . they must internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of behavior .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom had won the right to the vote , and today most women in the developed world are enfranchised . this is surely true in pakistan , where a general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate change . but in many developing countries , the resistance that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists in practice . at first glance , pakistan seems progressive . after all , the law has allowed women to vote for a vote since 1956 , nearly a decade after independence from britain .
the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just when the euro crisis was worsening and unemployment was rising to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . in some cases , the result was unexpected : some lending rates actually increased . what was supposed to be clear was that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models , both formal models and mental models to guide policymakers ’ thinking – were sorely mistaken . they continued to use the old , discredited models , perhaps quite moderately modified . none anticipated the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , the semblance of full employment has been revived .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife , were as inept at governing as kim ; but , following the calamity of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them to military and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , was fortunate for china ’s citizens . but mao ’s death did , at least , end the caesarism era in china . since there was no son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do business .
in ukraine , freedom of speech has been on the verge of communism ’s fall , restored overnight . but a revived civil society , the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life , is a complicated task , because the peoples of egypt and tunisia would soon find themselves in line . indeed , we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh experience of the former soviet era . though communism might , each now and then coexist with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , this could never coexist with civil society . the most fateful attack to accompany installing any dictatorship is an assault on civil society .
even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense , under article 5 of the nato treaty ? then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies affirmed that an act of aggression had actually run out , despite putin ’s denials . then , imagine american intelligence agencies confirmed that an act of aggression was actually underway , despite putin ’s ’s denials . would he have called putin have to ask what ’s going on ? and would putin have been making yet another “ unbelievable offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom of things ?
and china ’s economy has been showing doubters for many years . the baseline scenario for the us continues at a robust rate . but these external risks are not keeping the outlook for global growth necessarily bleak . so 2019 could be turning out to be just another year of solid global growth . europe ’s growth could just be up above trend , as it continues its long , sluggish recovery following the onset of the decade ’s debt crisis .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of the us supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec , that case , against the sec , was won by the appeals court , dc circuit breakers , on technicality – the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . at the conference last december , i asked the sec to go a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than fulfill such an analysis , and re-propose the rule , chose to stall . yet she acknowledged that the sec had many of the other items on its agenda , and framed the issue on the back burner , a polite way by saying that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , had given it surrendered under irresistible pressure . i had even offered to do the free press ’s cost-benefit analysis . this small triumph turned into a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than actually implementing such analyses and re-proposing the rule , chose to stall .
the european central bank ’s response has been analogous – but less forceful – with monetary policy easier than headline inflation rates would suggest . but these are no normal times , either . indeed , the fed ’s monetary-policy policy was inadequate to stave off america ’s recession , albeit one that remains so mild that many question whether it qualifies as a real-life animal . in brief , the major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis , only to over-react . and , in western europe , too , gdp is now declining .
just days later , eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce “ “ outcomes ” to do without regard for the clear proof of voting rigging . when the opposition tried to question these inconsistencies , eck abruptly declared kibaki to be the winner . shockingly , he proclaimed that he did n’t know who actually won . the election is a disaster for kenya ; but the international community ’s response , led by the american people , is no less distressing . the eu observers also reported that the election tally did not meet basic international norms .
given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data just as well , little weight should be tied to them . but that makes it harder for monetary policymakers to respond to mounting trade barriers . unsurprisingly , therefore , household and company surveys predict actual inflation expectations more accurately . so , too , is the case that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . furthermore , a host of risk premiums are forcing such indicators hard to interpret .
at first sight , it seems counter-intuitive that companies would want to share data , and potentially give away competitive advantage . but this presupposes that owning such data does indeed imply a competitive advantage , and that closing down the operating model is financially sustainable . as a recent morgan stanley report noted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are insufficient to sustain large , integrated r & d organizations , making industries ’s today ’s operating model financially unviable . at first glance , it seems counter-intuitive that companies want to share data , and potentially give away competitive advantage . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold out assumptions about the limits of pre-competitive collaboration that need to be challenged .
despite tightening economic noose , elements , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s high oil prices by the end of january , many nuclear-power experts are now predicting that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . trying to force iran back with steadily mounting sanctions has not yielded any results at all . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s high oil prices are an appalling scenario . indeed , despite tightening economic noose , america ’s imposed sanctions on all companies that do business with iran ’s ’s ’s ’s central bank , and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by the end of january , many nuclear-power experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to building a bomb . trying to compel iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has not yielded outcomes .
if applied , bank capital would become scarcer , credit flows slower , and bank fees higher in countries with pretty steady financial sectors , simply because others have been spending a fortune supporting their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . this levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial sectors were in tatters following the crisis , is finding it very hard to swallow for eu states that have not really intervene to bail out their banks . the same is true for the derivatives trading system , for instance . post-crisis resolution fervor in the eu means that it will now be more expensive everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest-rate changes . this levy amounts to an easy way to spread on the political and financial cost of a crisis from some to all eu members .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted financing from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job-seekers to particular jobs , principally entry-level positions that do not require university degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup would help them recruit higher-quality applicants . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup would help them recruit higher-quality applicants to do so . already , the california community college is working with learnup to give students access to the skills they need to fill available local jobs . learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capitalists , is creating partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job-seekers to particular jobs , principally entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . at the same time , at & t offers scholarships through partner nonfinancial non-profit institutions , and provides paid internships for up to 100 graduates .
porto , a military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country , poses enormous dangers not only for egypt ’s democratic transition , but also for democratic hopes in the arab world as well . the muslim brotherhood , of course , was also victims of its own flaws , particularly morsi ’s failure and his government to come down to the secular opposition , elements of which contributed to its election later in march . morsi ’s government appeared incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority was insufficient , particularly nowadays . the fact that the coup was carried out with massive popular support serves as a sign of the enormous difficulty that the muslim brotherhood has faced during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to tackle egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the massive public expectations generated by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists were seeking not only liberty , but also economic development and social justice .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial charged that complicity in the genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . and french military intervention in the central african republic has failed to place an end to severe inter-communal violence there . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to take place in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than elsewhere in the world , the continent has also become a harbinger of hope . unfortunately , africa ’s mass killings continue to occur at a time of severe inter-communal violence . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , the massacres of civilians are on the rise , primarily around a harbor of the past .
one shudders to think of what will happen if europe does not pull back from its current funk . moreover , with growing concern about america ’s fiscal sustainability , europe has a tremendous opportunity to play a much bigger role as a reserve currency . europeans might not really mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so happy if george bush came along . fortunately , europeans probably wo n’t wait so long to start moving ahead again . surely , europeans would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight by the us in world economic policy .
a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force , a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast . by contrast , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and the reduction of the corporate-tax rate . that implies it was inadequate to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed considerably , that is , up to now . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into the japanese economy . the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of chaos emanating from gaza , that israel has vacillated , and the collapse of the palestinian authority before our eyes . many in the us believe that sharon ’s departure from politics can be met with only providential man , with all hope – and dangers – that this entails . nor will the emergence of another providential figure come easily , at no one ’s own mind ? not all the exceptional periods create their bonapartes , and this is likely to do some good , for exceptional leaders may pass the illusion that all problems have solutions that are far from the truth . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ at france , ” ” ” ” but the rapid pace of technological change pushes us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs .
still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including measures related to the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . the uk is not in a position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to move ahead . so , while the cameron government ’s strong support for deeper eurozone integration makes it welcome , the eurozone can not and will not be shaped out from outside , and according to british concerns . uk leadership in these areas has been highly appreciated , and would be sorely missed should the british decide to abandon . indeed , at last year ’s summit , the uk ’s negotiations over the “ fiscal compact ” should already provide an indication to cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called “ national veto . ”
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , a man whom assad ’s father had ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . had the us administration really not been predicting that assad , like his father before it , might be responding to a popular violence uprising ? but they would fault an american for not comprehending a bigger war , at least for the first time . in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the massacre of more than 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at that time , the point of being visited was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and to express themselves . ”
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , china ’s central bank , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under great pressure to float the currency . all economics students are learning the mundell-fleming model , according to which an economy can not keep a fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and preserving monetary stability will not be easy . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and open-ended capital account tightens monetary policy in order to contain inflation , the rise in domestic interest rates gives market participants a incentive to borrow foreign currencies , and to convert them into a domestic investment currency . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervening by selling the domestic currency , particularly the us dollar , until interest rates and the money supply return have returned to their previous levels .
us presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit for the profits that corporations redistribute to workers over the next two years . tax credit could also foster change in corporate culture , by spurring board-level debates not only on the benefits of earnings sharing , but also on the sharing of information and decision-making authority with employees . the stagnant incomes of the majority of us workers are undermining economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and on the supply-side side ( through the adverse effects of educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) . by offering temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to offset the government-created profit-sharing program . to curb costs and avoid abuse , the profits totaling more than 10 % on the top of the worker ’s wage would be excluded ; the sum offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against the replacement of wage share , raises , and other benefits would be established .
and that message is straightforward : nobody is safe from prosecution , even when , like abyzov and ishayev , they had retired from public services and no longer sway . in addition , selective repression has become harsher . most russians see little connection between prosecuting key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . but it is a message to russia ’s mushrooming elites . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally fighting corruption .
last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report , beyond gdp : measure what counts for economic and social performance . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . a new report highlights several themes , akin to faith and insecurity , that were addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability , more deeply . it also supported a successor to the commission , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . improved indicators would discover the highly negative and perhaps long-lasting impact of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity to reduce fiscal deficits but constrained national wealth , properly measured , even more so .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about reforming and regulating financial markets from the prospect of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moving toward … mak [ ing ] the purchase of an investment enduring and indissoluble , ” like the marriage .... ” but , on the other hand , he immediately drew back : the fact that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment was ‘ liquid ’ ’ ( though that ca n’t be true of all investors collectively ) calms , makes him much more willing to run such risk … ” it is for these reasons that we have seemed frozen for a generation , or two whenever we have contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment has intolerably boring and over-exacting about anyone who is totally exempt from the gaminstinct ; the whilst that they have it has had to pay to pay for that propensity the appropriate toll … . ” and it is one reason why , even in the face of severe financial crises , we remain frozen today .
this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy produced by american firms ( a huge part of that go to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . yet , despite this enormous advantage , some foreign firms may still be able to make it in the american market . enormous subsidies have meant that america became the world ’s largest producer of ethanol ethanol . perhaps foreign producers can not compete unless their cost is $ 1,05 a gallon of ethanol , whereas there is no tariff on petroleum , and only about $ 0.5 per gallon of gasoline taxes . perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon import tariff on ethanol , when there is no oil tariff , and just one gallon of gasoline taxes .
on other issues , notably immigration , obama rejects states ’ rights and insists on a federal entity . the legal and political challenges implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains the illicit substance under us federal law and the international conventions that america has adopted . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : while public-opinion polls in 2012 suggest a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement . just as importantly , was us president barack obama ’s response to colorado and washington votes , but so did the two states that he won easily in his reelection bid . just as importantly , was president barack obama ’s response to colorado and washington votes , but also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that seen in his reelection bid .
some four million northerners were denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were the descendants of migrants from neighboring countries . regional and religious tensions were building in the wake of houphouet ’s death , aggravated by the new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . the outcome was catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries sharpened . regional and religious tensions have intensified since houphouet ’s death , and have been aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . whatever else between such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves no doubt about the advantages of a social stability seen in the ivory coast during this period , until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with a former colony .
in the long term , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . these governments want to establish an educational system on which the state alone determines which fields of research are essential and socially important . in other words , access to knowledge will cease being a civil right . the political trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past . in the long run , they are likely to want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge .
mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum , ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , noted that interdependent , formerly an economic “ boon , ” now seems to be a threat as well . despite all of its undeniable benefits , it has dithered over the politics of governance and governance that exposed the inefficiencies of national governments and international institutions alike . this left people everywhere , the rich , and the poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failing states to failing banks , from excessive fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation , to whom globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . dubai , globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . fragile institutions have given rise to a political backlash and the dangers of disaster on a wide array of fronts .
so , not only has china become central to every aspect of sri lanka ’s global financial and economic system now revealed its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not so much one , but rather that china has given president mahinda rajapaska both the military supplies and the diplomatic cover he needs to prosecute the war . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of sri lanka ’s global financial and economic system ; it has now demonstrated its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” was brought to an end . london – for two decades – chinese diplomacy was guided by the country ’s concept of a “ peaceful rise . ”
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury secretary , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that doing so would cement a new american nation . germany has the greatest exposure by far among the countries rescuing the eurozone ’s ’s crisis-stricken countries , and so it is helping to soften austerity more than any other country . but the mutualization of debt has given it huge moral hazard effects , prompting the states to borrow excessively . should the euro break out , and gipsic defaulting countries would lose some € 545 billion , almost half the aggregate mentioned by the bundesbank , because the bank conducted most of the net payments in the name of gipsic countries that receive the targets ’ targets . george soros was underestimating the risk that a debt mutualization would have represented on the eurozone ’s future .
in terms of global health alone , the year appeared to be one of the unrelenting tragedy . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant forest or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the reemergence of polio in nigeria earlier this year , to name a polio-free . hong kong , looking back on 2016 , might not seem to be a lot to celebrate . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones that have been bombed , the zika virus has reemerged as a heightened threat . hopes for the vaccine of respiratory syncytial virus have been dashed .
this dynamic can be seen through the trend toward banking consolidation and branch closings that have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and diminished access to services in low - and middle-income communities . during the new deal era , regulators comprised the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but such mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , when banks quickly started moving away from cheap financial services and into high-profit-seeking activities . when it comes to ensuring equity in the banking sector , these precedents and the existing institutions are signaling a way forward . history also shows the us that financial exclusion is a relentless problem when universal services are absent .
in april 2016 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american people congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had gone “ a poof poof ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . that was not lost on every american political leader , either . after all , the israeli government not only allowed the supposedly unapproved afghan outposts to exist ; it also supplied them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as though they drove the massive israeli settlements on territories that they worked to include within an independent state . by december 2016 , obama had been allowing the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s ’s ’s ’s settlement construction of a “ major barrier ” to a two-state solution .
new haven : all over europe and america , men in black tie and women in kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims on places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . once again , state coffers are tapped to encourage these privileged retreats . consider a thing of incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : the roman catholic high mass . does its grandeur really mean that the state should subsidize it ? perhaps , then again , it is also time to ask itself once again a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle around generous subsidies for such elite activity ?
in defense and warfare , however , unpredictability implies the possibility of young men dying in action . so the key characteristic of foreign policy integration today is that governments ca n't possibly know in advance what they are letting themselves in this way . this contrast underlines the fact that eu integration had taken place when no-man ’s ’s implied land – land that lies between total national autonomy and total loss of sovereignty within a federation . but foreign policy as the us has known it in theory is basically a manifestation of a nation state or superpower . not surprisingly , therefore , foreign-policy integration has made little progress .
lebanon often struggles to attract financing , owing to its status as a middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural vulnerabilities that pre-date the syrian crisis , or the vast share of resident populations composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq ’s living in abject poverty . without additional us backing from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . one thing that i hope will become apparent with the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries plagued by fragility and conflict . i am thankful by the world ’s donor agencies who have been at the start , but now we are also in need of extra international aid . i am thankful by the world bank group on $ 100 million for the new year .
only the anorexic would resolve to devour ice cream at least once per week , and only the workaholic would resolve to spend more time in the front of the tv . so we apply the new year 's occasion to try to change behavior that may prove to be the most difficult to change . what does this tell us about human nature and our ability to live either prudently or not ethically ? part of the problem is , of course , that we make resolutions designed to do all things that we are not likely to make . what does this tell us about human nature enormously ?
clearly , the fed needs to take a deep look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking process . a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now vastly overstated the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years . elementary mathematics dictates that credible prediction should at least overestimate half of time and under-shoot down half as many times before . the fed clearly needs to take a deep view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . a second conclusion to emerge from the current situation is that the fed has now vastly overstated the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years .
how high the percentage should go before claiming over-diagnosis is a major problem and value judgment , and one can think of it . such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnosis . the question , then , is not whether some of the patients previously given a diagnosis do not seem to have it upon reconversation , but rather how many might have it . any study that seeks to determine whether a psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that certain patients with a condition do not have it upon reinterview . but we consider the nature of an over-diagnosis of the size of the psychiatric diagnosis .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930s , it was shared by western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as the hoped-for panacea . in many previous banking crises , it was poland or the hard-hit region that hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) hard . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out the search for solutions , and that some are losing faith in the economic system itself . policymakers will continue throwing some ammunition that they can find at the problem , but it will be taking time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a global banking crisis becomes global in nature .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s widespread travels in europe this year has not attracted as much attention as was supposed to have , given trump the keytheoretician of american president donald trump ’s signature label of nationalism . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen herself an open proponent of russian president vladimir putin , bannon seems to have in mind a new kind of “ neo-nationalist international . ” bannon now wants to build a confederation of nationalist parties in europe . and yet , one wonders how a “ america first ” ideologue may pursue his own political project any other than in america . just as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal ” democracies under strongman rule , nationalism has become the ideological common denominator .
diplomatic immunity from local prosecutions was an idea that sprang either directly from another episode , nearly a century earlier , involving the arrest of the russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london . macartney refused to conform to the chinese imperial protocol by declining to the emperor because it was not obliged to do the same with his own sovereign . this , too , was a case of “ keeping face down ” : the chinese had expected tribute to the equal status of his king . one famous incident at the end of the eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s mission to the imperial court of china . as a result , the mission had broken down .
assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged over the next five years , before rising from about 2 % to about 5 % . but when the interest rate on ten-year bonds rises to about 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from about $ 100 to $ 69 . during those five years , the investor earns an extra 2 % worth every year for the cumulative gain of at least 10 % . here ’s how the arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over ten-year bonds over the next five years , thus earning 2 % more every year than he or she would have invested in treasury bills or bank deposits . here ’s how the arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over ten-year bonds would more than wipe out the additional interest that he earns , even if rates remain unchanged for about five years .
only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbons consumers , can start changing on a global scale . so the g-8 countries should agree not to license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 . that decision would be focused not on individual mobility , but against the dissipation of a scarce resource , which is yet to be needed for synthetic materials . change must start within the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of all current oil consumption , a share that will probably rise to the future . after all , political leaders should privilege neither particular technology .
on the other hand , for the past two and a half years , the people of the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , have been intervening in currency markets for precisely the opposite purpose : to stop the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar . such statements are at least as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation that china ’s currency manipulation is not backed up by facts . ithaca – america ’s president-elect donald trump has once again failed to turn the facts upon his head . as part of a broader effort to assume china the task of the supposedly “ hollowing out ” the united states economy through an unfair trade policy , he has now renewed his accusation that the country manipulates its currency , in order to shore up its exports .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital hosted ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves confronting a few painful truths about their countries . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh , calls himself baba gurmeet rahim singh insan , a “ hindu compound ” compound , muslims , and sikh names , followed by a “ human ” word for the “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . in 2002 , two of these followers muzzled the courage to press charges . and it has a reputation for sexually exploiting his female followers . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of a few “ godmen , ” ” ” or self-professed spiritual leaders , who flourish across india .
but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad shows that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from the reduced level of european exports to iran . by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposes unilateral sanctions . to be sure , some imports would become more expensive for iran ; but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain confined to the us . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not be missed the chance to weaponize unilateral measures for propaganda purposes , even if its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally . for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution even if its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose in response unilaterally .
his efforts to revise japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s pacifist constitution , to restore pride in its wartime record , and to discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , earned him the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , whom abe called “ trump ” before trump . no one could be more identified with a political elite like abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister , and , later , prime minister and the son of a foreign minister . abe and his allies now seek to quash that influence . and yet it shares right-wing populists with hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it is ’s convenient to operate . securing high-quality output and the loyalty of local consumers requires keeping their workforces happy and maintain positive public image . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be so limited . as one former mining manager in the region told me , “ the goal has always been simple : getting assets out and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss as possible . ” because a customer is abroad and little processing is needed in a country , why should companies upgrade local capabilities or otherwise aid the host economy ?
booms of boom mentality have spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around the world in 1998 , paris , miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other large cities have been booming pretty much everywhere since ; prices in most of these cities are up by at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now home prices are faltering in some of these cities . the first big city to boom has been london , beginning around 1996 . this has gone from being a huge windfall to homebuyers , but it has also hurt anyone planning to buy .
control also relies on demography of internet users , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite and are more likely to accept the internet as part of its newfound consumer lifestyle than as an instrument of political or social revolutions . what is surprising is that the government ’s control mechanisms have largely been effective . yet it is also appealing to profound social changes , rooted in the rising human rights consciousness within society , that something strengthened -- and thus amplified -- and amplified -- -- not only by the economy ’s growth , but by the rapid spread of the internet . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are becoming increasingly aware of how to protect their own economic and social interests through the language of privilege . the government employs a host of new legal regulations , the shadow internet police force , and the powerful hardware-founded national information system .
this european polity lacks a second critical element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and an special-interest group are represented within the eu . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level decisions . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent europe ’s citizens ’ connected interests , because none has to compete for europe-wide public support . but , while common european causes arise daily , they have no europe-wide political representation .
this time , too , not to mention lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein , among other things . and yet american presidential campaigns , more generally , neglect the argument for consultants or intellectual influences . what ’s more , indeed , was the name of a president ? even though a president ’s advisors may change , one could think that the candidates would admit them if only to suggest where their own ideas derived from them ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their capacity to judge and manage the expertise , not their own abilities as economists see . after all , obama originally had a worried team of us economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein .
after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the american people from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive turn to the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help to bolster arab states ’ commitment to a terrorist coalition as they provide a useful shove to america ’s diplomacy . what this distinct contribution might not be difficult to define . they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . in short , they will need to make their own efforts to contain a common endeavor . for one thing , they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they placate washington ’s preferences .
earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease program in california . the topic was obscure but large collections ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a particular type of genetic error , one that take into common cells ’ machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . as a result , medical professionals often know very little about the symptoms and the biology of these illnesses . one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult . little is known about what causes the mutations creating such congenital disorders , and treatments exist for only a few .
one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and business leaders . in ukraine , even the universities are imperiled : degrees are bought regularly and sold as well . markets have become rigged , justice has become transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest offices of bidder . one might assume that this simply requires a powerful state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and business leaders . in time , this “ culture ” of corruption permeates society .
by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing than is made in israel , thereby resettling one of the country ’s major economic problems with its middle class . in israel , obama will encounter a country that has really moved , but not ready for the missing center . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sobering interpretation . its “ red lines ” in israel have a way to mutating along the lines drawn in the sandy age , which is then rendered invisible at the slightest august . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion .
at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s property bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . despite japan ’s weakness in its fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . if the government continues on this path , many expect next year ’s budget deficit to continue rising further . as a result , the ratio of tax revenues to total expenditure this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . japan had a similar recent experience at the end of the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ”
in late august , heads of state from the south african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , the leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges before them . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that have allowed mugabe to hold him to power ; torturing and hijacking supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; transforming a fertile , prosperous country into one that once considered africa ’s breadbasket to an area in which more than half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its attacks on daily newspeak , suppression of critical voices . mugabe ’s regime committed outrage after outrage . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit final communiqué , two confronted zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that , while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of domestic politics , 60 % were satisfied with governance within their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in the creation of public primary and secondary education systems , as well as state-owned colleges and universities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what the chief justice brandeis called laboratories of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without bringing the rest of the country under risk . there is a long , rich history of successful experiments , and one for one thing . california , wyoming , switzerland , and other us states have allowed women to vote – an example that has spurred the passage of the nineteenth amendment ( the opposition of all adult women ) .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? in other words , price stability has reigns in the eurozone . with the current inflation rate of 0.3 % due to the marked drop in commodity prices and the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . only greece , for its part , currently has a slightly negative inflation rate . europe needs to aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and competitive creation .
thus , record-high speculative prices have most likely caused the bunker traders to release inventories , but those releases may have been bought by those speculators , who are now active lessees of commercial house capacity . the implication is that speculators may drive up prices and increase their inventories , even as total commercial inventories remain little changed . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always tricky , because it tends to occur against the backdrop of powerful fundamentals . additionally , the oil-price collapse may have prompted some “ echo speculation ” ” ” ” ” ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products in order to protect themselves against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises so that the overall refined inventories rise , but that increases are not part of reported commercial inventories .
furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map to create a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , exisiting de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have an ever lasting impact on the arab world ’s borders ( syria and iraq ) , and on the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . indeed , the arab spring has toppled some regimes , if not others , at all . but both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . if they hope to survive well in the coming century , they will probably have to subsumed under a union sponsored by the larger , more powerful , and more established nation-state .
indeed , new management products are being developed for some of the poorest individuals in africa , asia , and latin america . we tend to think that new risk-management products , such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily interest the rich , or at least the relatively wealthy . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . indeed , new management products are also being developed for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america . so risk-management management , by smoothing bumps in income , can be extremely important in offsetting the effects of poverty .
in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s great private oil companies ) gasoline stations . today , everybody deals with life and hardship individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make a living uniform . that disconnect is nothing new today ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s great private oil companies ) , gasoline stations . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , though sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) , deprived of – or liberated , it is an issue , russians of all collective life ; both the real lives of shared hardship and the imaginary semi-life of communist solidarity were always fixed .
greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic strengths . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and the source countries for the most productive workers . but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation in controlling illicit immigration , most countries – including the us and the eu – are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both parties , shielding destination countries from the expense of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting source countries against the costs associated with the loss of talented workers . a new system in which “ irreversible bonds ” were replaced by quotas and desirability screenings would reduce such competition while mitigating destination and source countries ’ downside .
denmark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they had made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with long-run implications . real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . every downturn eventually comes to an end . germany , the top-performing european country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years . denmark is a good policy mark that it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s peoples had been stunned by the choice of being their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as the pope . here , a prominent writer said , was “ poland ’s second christchurch . ” but , even in our own euphoria , we were not waiting for how much a new pope would have changed not only poland , but the world as a whole . some were horrified , others wept with glee . his first return visit to his home country , soon after , demonstrated for all the world the new pope 's power .
restraint , after all , is by no means a leninist virtue . though hong kong ’s courts surely might have handled that issue alone under “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is reassured by an independent court system , apart from the right to choose its own legislature , a enraged china intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ “ clarify ” article 104 of basic law , declaring that every haths made by office-holders had to be “ solemn , accurate , complete , and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred from involving their seats in the legislative council , and vice versa . to most hong kong ’s lawyers , a display of political authority did not represent mere reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones work .
proebok , a multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as being “ founded on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . but sensitivity to human rights has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide downsides . the international labor organization reports that trade unions are in retreat in most nations . prodded by groups like the consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations are promising to pay living wages , opening their factories to track , and even giving employees a voice in the workplace . the company markets its soccer balls and other goods with “ guaranteed : manufactured without child labor ” label .
that is as it should be . the us securities and exchange commission calls for companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their respective products to investigate these raw material ’ origin , and mitigate the risks in their supply chains consistent with oecd guidance should they find that they are originate within certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the united states has already taken the next logical turn . africa ’s 12 member countries ’ international conference on the great lakes region have committed themselves to similar compulsory due-diligence requirements . responsible sourcing is a duty , not an option .
cameron ’s initiative plays right into its back , permitting orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . most of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign firms , just as most of the rules that govern their economies were fixed by the eu . they will conclude that they can have it both ways , keeping the benefits of economic integration under control without losing their capacity to infringe upon their citizens ’ rights or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their hold over the state . but the truth is that cee countries possess not much to lose by the way that sovereignty is being built . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels .
one concern among the critics is that the transition to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , exposing the world ’s ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bankers and traders , whose flaws have helped to spur the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . indeed , profound and pervasive market failures – in the case of carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating ecological risks and ecological scarcities , undermining people ’s well-being and social equity . that is why connectivity for governance and institutions in rio +20 is just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are humankind ’s adaptation that requires rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also their borders . as the recently released report , towards the green economy : pathways for sustainable development and ” poverty eradication shows , a market economy as currently constituted has resulted in the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . one concern among critics is that the transition to a green economy will essentially monetize nature ; exposing major global forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bankers and traders , whose flaws have helped to trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years .
by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks force make me an islamophobe ? coincidentally , the lethal attack on gaza came at the same moment that an american clutch ’s most distinguished would-be middle east peacemakers published books on how the task should be tackled properly . third , as usual , israel charged with anti-semitism those daring to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment of the palestinians . it all sounded a little like a number of job claims before president barack obama ’s ear . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately has been accused of using the language of holocaust denial so deeply .
a similar political imperative lies at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism that has made a precipitous return to public life in sri lanka in 2009 . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , the then-president , hamid rajapaksa , continued to play down ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by a sri lanka coalition ’s democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s ’s presidential race , a result that he then sought to annul , was supposed to end both his career and that of race-baiting party politics . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese were encouraged during the last , bloody push that culminated in sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but the former president is now mounting an angry comeback , and could well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what will happen when classrooms become the actual targets for terrorists who see their education as a threat . in at least 30 countries worldwide , there is a concerted pattern of assaults by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , somalia , sudan , and syria the worst affected . schools all over the world , from north america to northern nigeria , are now in need of security planning to ensure their pupils ’ safety and provide confidence to their parents and their communities . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) such attacks expose the stark clarity that providing education is not only about blackboards , books , and curricula .
modest seeds funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get out of the ground . meanwhile , some companies and organizations , including wework , ikea , and starbucks , are leveraging themselves for online hiring . global organizations are tapping tech-savvy refugees ’ networks and recruiting them for online work . some , like tent , encourage companies to hire refugees and integrate them into supply chains where they happen to live . more child scholarship opportunities , together with greater school financing within and outside of refugee settlements , would also be a welcome development .
the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to help protect local ecosystems . that is why it is increasingly being dismissed in favor of the agro-ecological model , founded under the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” indeed , next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the united nations conference to the convention on biological diversity ( un biodiversity conference ) . one hopes that the international community is honing its responsibility to protect food supplies , as will farmers ’ rights throughout the world . while there , they will consider whether to press the brakes on gene drives , ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before these technologies emerge in their communities .
the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and of the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession was settled . but will that suffice to create a chávista lineage ? buying time to secure one ’s own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , while undergoing a complex and agonizing cancer treatments that they still “ walking ” and exercising it . it is n’t exactly clear how long venezuelan hugo chávez was actually dead before his passing was formally declared . the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into an electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro .
likewise , governments in the developed world have a role to play in influencing the character of technological innovation . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than driving innovation in socially more favorable positions , in order to augment , rather than substitute for , less-skilled professionals or physical capital . such policies are unlikely to make much of a difference for developing countries as well . for them , the main impediment will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : the use of less-skilled labor instead of highly skilled professionals or physical capital . demanding the quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not be met easily by replacing machines with manual labor .
only the republican majority in the us house of representatives headed by speaker paul ryan has any claim that he would represent a numerical majority of the top 55 % of americans who voted for the 2016 election . this is unprecedented , or “ unpresidented , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” as one of its semi-literate tweets put it ( before discarding it ) , in the history of such ratings . both the us government of the world ’s oldest democracy actually is not a democratic one . there are only some republican majorities in the us house of representatives , led by speaker paul ryan , that have any say in representing a numerical majority of americans who voted for the 2016 election .
more broadly , turkey and the west are mired in a kind of political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected in every side being differing in threat perceptions and alliances in syria ’s conflict . in turkey ’s view , its western partners did little to do with this , through technology transfer and joint-production regimes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , the chinese and , to a lesser degree , russia ’s firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter a military procurements . and , in fact , domestic defusing industries is only part of the story . the s-400 dispute is just the latest example , when military procurement matters have generated a rift between turkey and its western allies .
this is not to say that our response to the dangers that emerge from our past must be rooted in the past . underdevelopment in many southern african countries that are faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world creates the conditions for desperately poor poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond controlling atrophying to atrophying state systems . this need not be argued that our response to the dangers that always arise from past legacies must be rooted in the past . there is a larger need than ever before for innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance . we will not make a better world on the 21 st century by forgetting what occurred at the end of the 19 th and much of the g20 .
in the bilateral negations with moscow , american officials were offered four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · expanded nato-russia theater-level bmd exercises that are building on earlier collaboration , which has been disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 war on georgian technology , and that rehearsed how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend missile threats ;
under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and pugnacious policy proposals are likely to run headlong into budget constraints . though the us tax package that trump signed on to legislation last december ’s front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the economy keep growing , government revenues have struggled to make much more responsive to growth . meanwhile , his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) – and to curtail the growth of their medicaid spending – have so far failed . and the temporary boost from defense spending will revert to deficient levels following this fiscal year . at the same time , he has defied any change in social security .
indeed , europeans have always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve a jewish state ’s identity . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering a unequivocal blow to europe ’s foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . granting observer-state status to palestine would go off the table , notwithstanding the challenging demographic reality , not to mention the need to preserve the jewish state ’s identity . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably will not prevent the eu from delivering an amendment to the vote ; the reverberations of which will not only echo throughout the arab world ; they will also impede europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . the eu has always promoted a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve a jewish state ’s identity .
rather than demanding an end to censorship now , google works to ensure that happen by eroding government control over information . at the other extreme , any time in china googles something , and getting the answer , a product ’s well-being and bad points , the details of someone ’s government does n’t like ; he must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this kind of information of all ? ” with google , people start to expect answers to all of them , too . rather than demanding an end to censorship now , the impossible dream now is working to ensure that happen by eroding government control over information . moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it points to an information ’s absence when something is blocked , letting people know that it exists but that they can not have access to it .
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to assist them in doing so ; and that if a state has a clear failure to protect its people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action ” that might include military action if the un security council passed . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise , particularly its punishing military action in exceptional circumstances , is only “ “ old neo-interventionist wine ” in a new bottle . but , while no outcome was formally agreed or made public , several themes emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , so long missing in syria , about how to deal with the hardest mass-atrocity cases .
by concentrating on these problems , i am not at all attempting to belittle globalization ’s benefits . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand these better if we are to survive . global integration has brought far-reaching benefits : the international division of labor , which is so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic gains like economies of scale , and the rapid spread of innovations from one country to another have less easily demonstrated by static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic rewards like the freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and people ; and the freedom of thought connected to the international movement of ideas . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent experimentation to correct and containing the system ’s shortcomings . so the global economy should really be thought of as the global capitalist system .
making matters worse for trump , widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit the process of impeachment . trump was portraying the report ’s findings as entirely exonerating ( “ no collusion , no obstruction of obstruction , ” on the pre-election payoffs to silence two women , with whom he had sex liaisons shortly after the birth of his son , barron ) . trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as completely exonerating him ( “ “ no collusion , ” whereas trump is one in new york case involving his participation in the pre-election payoffs to silence two women , with whom he had sex liaisons shortly after the birth of his son , barron ) . this is neither in the constitution nor the rule of law . mueller explained that a controversial department policy , intended to aid president richard nixon , bars the impeachment of a sitting president .
renewed conflict in the south caucasus would not only unleash the risk of open warfare with russia ; it would strain relations with armenia , because there are near the 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support a breakaway government there . at the same time , russia was enforcing a full georgian trade embargo in the hope of weakening nagorno-karabakh ’s resolve , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent its country from unraveling . likewise , russia has been enforcing a full georgian trade embargo in the hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian backing ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : separate eurozone budgets , a eurozone finance minister accountable for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of european parliament members and national parliamentarians ) to hold a finance minister accountable . now that merkel ’s new administration is in place , we will discover how far germany is prepared to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in his current form . before germany ’s ’s new coalition government was formed , the franco-german working group was set to consider macron ’s ’s ’s proposals . europe must make progress on its first opportunity should it seize the second , and that means bolstering the eurozone .
furthermore , the recent establishment of two big mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix of development finance . over the same time , the financial crisis has prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand their plants . and large ndbs can have a powerful impact , particularly in the emerging-market economies . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets have reached roughly $ 5 trillion by 2015 . today , they are an important feature of the most developed and middle-income countries , notably china , germany , india , and south korea .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i emphasized earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would , in principle , resolve one big issue , the rundown of britain ’s diplomatic service , by creating a far bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
so what should the american and other governments support liberal democracy now ? more broadly , military interference with civilian politics has repercussions for any reason weakens processes , institutions , and checks on the state power that makes liberal democracy work . as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ point of view , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american support ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s ’s ’s ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 ; that it drove an elected islamist state government out of power ; and that america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . if the choice for islamists continues bullets or ballooning , bullets may now look more promising . the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region .
consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as westerners ploys to sterilized and spy on muslims . yet the world continues to underestimate the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . as a result , the incidence of malaria has dropped by more than 75 % between 2000 and 2015 . this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs effectively ; it also places them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation concerning vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who would provide them . for example , in early july , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such staff to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities concerning prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union had vanished into thin air , the successive waves of nato enlargement had served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : to bring the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began inviting even the most hindu and corrupt states to join . at first , nato ’s new members were proclaimed to have met with both democratic and military criteria . moreover , not only enlarged its membership ; it also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
perhaps this element was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose to spite it . so , in search of the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can rule out a distraction through even more urgent issues . the fund normally expects the problems to arise from the usual suspects , economically volatile developing countries , but this time the crisis has been developing a few miles away from its home . if so , it is a failure that will raise two key questions . ironically , it has been at the forefront of the imf for focusing on its oversight role .
it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is vital to any understanding of the french position in libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un , which has led to a country ’s resistance to intervention in iraq in 2003 , is now being led by france to intervene in libya in 2011 . but if nato is – for better or for worse – in command on the ground in libya , then it is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there as well . it is a shift that raises an important question : if those who are prepared to act prove incapable of doing so clearly “ successfully , ” ” ” ” ” what will happen to global stability , unless those who are able to step in ? at the crossroads of the question stands with nato , an organization perceived as american by europeans and international ( that is , not an american ) by the average american citizen .
of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit trials and expectations , we can hope to reset norms altogether . but if that hour really did give a lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would need to lie deliberately to hide it . if an official encounters with a lobbyist and is n’t ashamed , he can say so simply . voters can make their own judgments , while allowing them to do the most damage . and when an official encounters mostly with lobbyists , at the expense of other kinds of meetings , voters can make judgments on this , too .
big tech ’s firms might argue that all the capital they pour in new products and services is pushing for innovation . and there is a risk that the tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product , and their vast regulatory resources to block it . in practice , therefore , potentially disruptive new technologies are as likely to be buried as nourished . it is notable that big tech still derives most of its revenue from its corporate ’ ’ core goods , for example , apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office , and the google search engine . one suspects , however , that in many circumstances the intent is nip ’s potential competitive in the bud .
for example , when a small italian bank received money from someone who had never traded a large order at american shoe shares shortly before the firm was obtain by an italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard to smell a fish . historically , both the state and the federal attorney general have tended to prosecute “ occasional ” traders , who stick as a sore scam . in other words , precisely because occasional trades rarely , it is far easier to prove the nexus of causality between their trades and an illegal tipping point . in rajaratnam ’s case , by contrast , it becomes far more difficult to identify the problem when a person makes hundreds of trades on the block every day . in rajaratnam ’s case , by contrast , it becomes far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades every day .
roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls are still more than twice as likely as boys of the same age to carry the virus . yet barely one-third of young africans know how to prevent hiv , another reason for emergency education and comprehensive education for all ( uhc ) . worldwide , sexual violence is exploited as a war tactic . african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to contracting hiv . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity .
new york – many historians and economists continue to insist that we are living in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s decisions can change things in history as well . that may or at least be true in russia . the actions and choices of one man or a woman , regardless of how powerful , may not determine nations ’ destiny . that has certainly been true in russia , and might soon turn out to be true in turkey just as well .
according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the capability to limit the prediction temperature rise to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 , though her wording was crafted to avoid precisely saying that this was , predictably , what most people heard . the sea-level rise would be halved by just 1.3 centimeters . as i show in a new peer-review paper , even if successful , the agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures by just 0.05 ° celsius by 2100 . according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ the indcs [ we ] have the capability to limit the prediction temperature rise to around 2.7 ° c by 2100 , by the end of this year by which her formulation was crafted to avoid being practically enough but well below the estimated four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by the many earlier ” . this might seem surprising : we are constantly listening for just how every country made important commitments to limit co2 emissions , the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions , ” or indcs .
upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and includes too little effective adjustment mechanisms . of course , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near term , for fear that doing so might adversely affect the outcome of a consequential election in the netherlands , france , germany , and possibly italy . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country has just a responsibility to get its own house in order while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . anti-euro political forces are clearly making electoral inroads and will continue to gain eu status as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains stubbornly high . meanwhile , the eu will most likely fail to pursue substantive policies or institutional reforms in the near term , for fear that doing so might adversely affect the result of a consequential election in the netherlands , france , germany , and possibly italy .
and on september 9 , while local government elections did take place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not participate in the event , following having been arrested for an earlier un-sanctioned show . then the pension reform was declared , spurring a string of protests that had driven putin to pledge to soften the measure , while demanding that the russians be allowed to reach an understanding . yet , in the wake of the september three attacks , 53 % of the population said they were ready to protest further . and on september 3 , while local government elections occurred , tens of thousands joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation . ”
change , however , did not come smooth . by the time europe and china crossed the path in the opium wars of 1839-42 , technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and so compelled china to put in a succession of unilateral , humiliating concessions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 according to external pressures and internal demands for change . china squandered its economic and technological potential by itself . china ’s imperial states and society were destabilized by european incursions .
true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare event . but they tend to be ingenious at developing glamorous new spaces from little towns within a hour of ’s commute . where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning and making an entire city there . these cities ’ manifest successes , as in both government and economic centers , attests to the fact that urban land derives value from the presence of a well-planned home there . moreover , private developers have difficulty getting a grand plot free of constraints .
so far , venezuela ’s governing elite and much of the investment community have presumed the worst and the least behaved : none of the blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing . if he goes statist/populist , 2001 , is a crisis year . it may last for amlo , but it will create increasing friction with the economic realty and a growing incentive for chavez to be authoritarian . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , there will be a road ahead for growth and stability . there is no imminent crisis about this , but chavez must choose venezuela ’s future .
massive surpluses in the three years since 1999 far exceed the official deficits forecast for the coming two years . growth is forecast to return above a 2005-06 trend , bringing the current cycle to an end . but independent forecasters are also more pessimistic about the outlook . the average us budget surplus since the beginning of this cycle has been 0.8 % of gdp . this implies that the treasury expects the average surplus to rebound since july 2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown ’s strictures to be met .
but , as georgia ’s price has showed long ago , darwinian evolution may make us altruistic , at least relative to the people we perceive as members of the group that we call “ us . ” in the process , we may well understand that we vote because it is what citizens ought to be doing , and we excel at our workplaces , because we advocate for respect and self-realization , not just uplifting . if successful , a new revolution may lead to strategies that empower us to be more responsive to our better-off angels . instead , strategies have emerged from the view that all our behaviors have been selfish , with an intellectual challenge to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that has also been recognized by nobel prizes . the new revolutions in economics may find space for strategies that rely on influence ideals and identities , rather than merely taxes and grants .
moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato ’s orders ( that is , american ) control , so that any attempt to staging a coup , or stirring up the trouble between romanian and our sizeable hungarian minority , can be avoided . such openly thuggish rulers as ukraine ’s kuchma , or lukashenka of belarus , is hardly at all inconceivable in romania nowadays . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own , and it is no panacea for our many social and political ills ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and by adhering to the rule of law . nato fixes hard limits the autonomy of local political elites by doing as they see fit . a more resolutely committed country like romania ’s democratic world is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or to eviscerate its democratic system .
the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule , or the mounting evidence of worsening regime performance in china , convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . an obvious explanation lies in the power of conventional thinking . indeed , the consequences of leadership deflation are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth ; rising social tensions ; and loss of government credibility . this is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . long-ruling regimes thinking back then from the former soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s hosni mubarak are typically viewed as invulnerable , even before they collapse .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining his room , instead using the chamber pot he had brought from china . perhaps he suspected stalin , as the bbc alleged last year , to collect and analyzing his feces to glean information about the great lakes region ’s temperament . some readers may lament that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , falsely declared , gaveled at the desk at the united nations general assembly in 1960 , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . but there is a point to be made of recent behavior by china . when it comes to a diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would consider creating .
its further development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . indeed , a would-be heir today needs legitimacy , not only from its powerful oligarchs , as well as from wall street . that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” or “ loyalists ” who stand for kremlin-backed change want to control the protest movement and use it as a lever in the latest fight with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that the quest for change precludes criticizing the government that should somehow be influenced by constructive proposals . until recently , loyalists have been arguing that the quest for change has built an acceptable market economy .
of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of the political and human-rights problems , such as the low-grade war in chechnya , or the yukos affair . my office worked closely with the state to assure that , at most , the juries are used for juries . that struggle is not out ; but , after my interventions , moscow ’s authorities need to take into account the public ’s negative attitudes toward their efforts to quash this publication . my office has paid close attention to chechnya , even though this is no easy feat from moscow . similarly , my office has banned the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , which was rolled back by moscow ’s municipal government on the pretext of a commercial dispute about a rent .
new delhi – international discussions about china ’s rise have centered on its rising trade muscle , its growing naval ambitions , and its expanding capacity to project military power . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with barely over half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 giant dams , is quickly accumulating leverage against its neighbors through the firm massive , hydro-engineering projects of supranational rivers . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by controlling multi-transnational river headwaters and manipulating its cross-border river flows . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed following the communist victory of china in 1949 . one critical issue , nonetheless , usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydropower hydro-hegemon with no modern history parallel .
they pose continued risks to economic stability , without providing compensating benefits with increased investment in productive activities . the fact that financial institutions escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . in the us , held elections on workdays rather than weekends or vacation , combined with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at significant disadvantage . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require higher capital requirements , as well as tighter regulatory scrutiny . as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reforms are , they need to be complemented with measures that redress the asymmetry of political access .
the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas israel occupied in 1967 . for israel , the occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and a gdp tens of times that of the people denigrate their basic rights of freedom and independence , photo opportunities provided by meeting and greeting palestinian leaders to replace the peace . a grave look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house lawn are revealing . negotiators parsed every possible solution to the permanent-status issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations . leaders of the world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace .
in other words , the export miracle arose not from state-sponsored chinese firms but from the offshore efficiency solutions that were crafted in the west . in personal relations , the denial tends to mask the imbalances , but only up to a point . as a result , the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china , them , or the us ? ultimately , the denial subpots and imbalances yield frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s own problems . such is the case for america as well as for china .
as lamy put it , nearly 80 % of the curry is ready ; the us needs only additional spices from the major players – india , the us , brazil , and china . and even more could be offered in politically palatable ways , meaning that doha ’s conclusion is within us , not beyond our grasp . but why bother to continue trying ? should doha fail , some are saying , “ life is going . ” that is true , of course , but that does n’t make this view any less naive .
at the same time , the eu has suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least in order to diversify away from russian supplies . in turn , lukashenko decided on the economic grounds that his country needs the eu ’s support , and could no longer depend solely on russia without paying tough political price . given that 20 % of russian-destined gas passes through belarus , a stable and structured relationship with its government has become a priority . but an eu-belarus thaw needs to be based on reciprocal , enduring steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
plant and animal species worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented rate , from 100 to 1,000 times the natural rate of extinction . paris , the world ’s poor are witnessing a drastic drop in their natural capital . worldwide , plant and animal species are vanishing at an unprecedented rate , with 100 to 1,000 times the natural rate of extinction . globally , the planet ’s most at-risk ecosystems are in the developing world , and thus depends on some of the neediest communities to preserve . but in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile environment is rarely the national priority .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy portfolio of clean-energy assets , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . for example , the utility-scale photovoltaic solar energy price in africa has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and has continued to fall today . that is more than sufficient to satisfy the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources have become less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel options . and south africa ’s renewables energy-independent producer procurement program saw total declines in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a potent staple in europe ; whether the narrative is of an illegal malian immigrant scaling up of the paris building to save a toddler or the formation of a populist government in italy aimed at deport a half-million migrants . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe was driving down wages . but plenty of countries like australia , canada , and singapore do just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas . because the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it left the european union , the uk will face skill shortages . and yet , despite steady coverage of the issue , or , more probable , precisely because of it , the migrant policy debate remains beset with misconceptions and politicization .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; rather , we need to recognize its limitations . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer diagnoses ( particularly for specific cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform noninvasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . looking ahead , the same cost-structure dynamics promise big increases in many areas of wellbeing . the gdp problem does not include a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional concerns ) , but something that is incomplete . it does not include the rise in the range of goods and services delivered at negative incremental costs , or the borderlands of individual well-being or social progress more broadly .
but many lament that a country ’s poor performance in the political class generally offered less cause for celebration . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line up in the hot sun , believing that their votes would make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers would do little to influence the outcome , have been left at home . studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the reverse is true in india . important changes in india ’s social composition ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence are , indeed , evidence of workplace democracy . studies of the indian elections consistently indicated that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india .
even if its victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration , or alarm ? first and foremost , he has turned out time and again in philadelphia royal , and nicolas sarkozy ’s two remarkable spokespeople for his candidacy to take office . it is undeniably a big “ “ “ show ” ” show with all of the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including the astonishing conspiracy twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” françois bayrou . or perhaps some of both ?
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating assaults on the rules-based trading system . in fact , japan recently enacted deals with preferential trade deals with the united states that could have challenged one feature of the multilateral trade system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligations , which states that any concessions or privileges due to one country in a trade deal must extend to all wto members . here , japan is again behaving “ voluntarily , ” ” ” ” under intense american pressure . gaining access to japan ’s agriculture market would seem to render trump ’s “ national-security ” worried over imported toyotas and hondas , the justification he enables to circumvent wto rules by his own tariffs . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade deals with the united states , which could challenge one of the pillars of its multilateral trade system : the “ most favored ” nation ” ( mfn ) obligations that states that any concessions or privileges to one country in a trade deal must extend to all wto members .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow the kok ’s example and take advantage of his trade union links , as well as his rapport with the working class , to achieve a social pact that aims to achieve sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance , and realizing his potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force calls for high job-creation rates . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement a dutch social-economic model -- countries are too different for it to be . emulating the dutch experience with job creation , it provides the surest possible path to alleviating poverty in brazil .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than the us national rifle association nearly overnight . by following the eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million users signaled their support for stronger gun-control legislation and their opponent on the american gun lobby . in 2011 , when then-us deputy barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ believe simply that they ’re in physical place does a lot , ” an apt response would have been : “ actually , occupying public spaces can accomplish much of it , depending on who the occupiers are , and on how many , they count . hence , america ’s human-rights marchers during the 1950 ’s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning ” of us numbers . nonetheless , assembly in the physical space fulfills the functions of a democracy for which online activity , however constant or passionate , simply can not .
economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than at foreseeing future trends . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . there has been no across-the-board import tariff . there was no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement of trade . so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s decline over the last year , the us faces an embarrassment of riches .
to me , this view of things explains much better than the orthodox account for why , for all money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the economic recovery got petered out . in one of his recent paper , milton friedman wrote that saving nowadays takes home the form of home . to be sure , some worried about the collapse of the household saving rate , but few were overly concerned with it . in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . just as the lenders did not force public money before the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to search loans to expand production once markets were flat or shrinking .
hugely successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have done just that , essentially channeling a “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements were stark : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case , with low-paid workers enormously benefiting enormously from “ social wage increases ” on healthcare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal , internationalist , foreign policies . by contrast , the current alp government has struggled until now to make anything like compelling . but there seem to be some fundamental rules of the political survival that have gone missing in australia in recent years , and spelling it out can help both the alp and others to remember them . the first rule is to have a philosophy .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants per year , the eu needs to mobilize its private sector , ngos , church groups , and businesses , toward business as sponsors . this has long been the fifth leg of a comprehensive plan . the exodus from war-torn syria was never to be turned into a crisis . this will require not only adequate financing , but also the human and capacity to match the private sector and its sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria should never turn into a crisis .
a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and the oil companies ’ stock declines . furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are , sadly , negative . it would be the same in the envisaged economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be discarded and additional investment , so that gdp can become less carbon-intensive . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment on some 2 % of gdp in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller output share will be available for household consumption . the problem does n’t come from using the prices tool .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . our priorities were first and foremost to secure the rights of europe ’s citizens , including by finding a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and greece , for whom negotiating was on the verge of peace and stability , not just in business and the economy . owing to the withdrawal agreement finalized this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been averted . since the start of the brexit negotiations , the us on the eu ’s 27 member states and the european parliament have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests or lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . and , besides , things could have been far worse in the past .
and nothing has attenuated the tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . a century later , another american president , barack obama , had immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ” such was the existentialist worldview of us president and the nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ a just war is , in the long run , far better for a man ’s psyche than the most prosperous peace . ” history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming power . the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade that has been felt for many years now .
other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , pursuing security cooperation with israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . so vital is the changes in the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being a custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , so it was said nothing when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” at the same time , politics has superseded religion within israel . yet today , with iran ’s influence rising and islamist terrorism continuing to proliferate , palestine is saudi arabia ’s latest worries .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to exploit europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . in sum , the old continent is hot . nobody can say how deep the changes will go , or how fast they will shift europe into the fast lane . no day passes without major headlines of big mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations perform harmonization . in france , too , great strategic gambits are underway in banks and fashion ; italy is already seeing its major players positioning itself on the european and world stage .
greece ’s debt crisis was an obvious warning that european policymakers must not allow its public debt to pile up indefinitely . germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments need to show their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore confidence in the markets , as well as to their own citizens . the eu was right to react decisively to give the euro more stability by offering short-term assistance to greece and establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore confidence in the markets , and to their own citizens .
it is the sort of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities or from financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . in the former yugoslavia , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as well as marxist marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalties were suspicious . to prewar the fascists of the american union was often assumed to have been a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . not to be seen as part of the indigenous russian people , jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal , and thus to be inherently treacherous . yet stalin came to realize that idea .
salafi jihadism is not an organization , but a ideological trend based on the prevailing belief that armed tactics of all types are the most efficient , and , in some versions of it , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . it should be above the constitution , rather than an article for a referendum . but was ansar al-shariah brigade actually behind an attack on the american consulate ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution arming islamist forces is by no means straightforward .
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel . in london early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from the press about his support for the “ two-state solution . ” it was recently said that his ultimate objective is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty . in either case , netanyahu now seems to have dropped the charade . their hope is sure to be lessened further when they see the bulldozers arrive in preparing the ground for new settlements , not an extraordinary occurrence .
europe ’s design flaw , an economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics , has become glaring . the pro-europe foundation has been severely challenged . structural change for economies that experienced a sharp drop in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominant currency bloc now must be brought into existence quickly , through crisis , and without the luxury of devaluation . the pain that this policy is causing has been exposed in the protests across the continent , as well as in the bitter impact of many struggling families , young , and elderly . at present , the pro-europe foundation was the promise of steadily rising prosperity .
reunification meant that everybody gets not only the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , overpaid unemployment and excessive job security , pervasive regulation . of course , germany ’s corporatism did not enable this solution : union wanted their wages protected . if west germany , in the face of reunification , had rolled back all of these unaffordable limits on freedom of markets ’ freedom , the resulting economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more nearly full employment , the drive for productivity would have made far more aggressive . the problem after all is not in east germany , but rather in the west . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay large quantities in high-wage east germany .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , offered a unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in a “ iranian foothold ” of israel on its borders , and thus not only in the politically naïve but irrational . that idea is of a hegemonic iran , which aspires to dominate the region , through a array of shiite proxies . that iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut through damascus , gaza , to baghdad , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen , the recent armed clash between hezbollah and the lebanese government is said to be just another sign of iran ’s hegemonic reach . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now profound , directed not just by the middle east , but by the united states as well .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats ’ control of the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) senate had the authority to do anything that they wanted in 2009 , and thus that they did . obama and his congressional allies enacted an $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that had been loaded with programs geared toward key democratic constituencies like environmentalists and the public employees of the us ; adopted a sweeping and highly unpopular health-care system ( whose constitutionality will go to the supreme court of justice this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects specific firms for borrowing and spending at levels that exceeded only in world war ii ; and centralized power in washington and washington , dc , and executive branch . while the 1988 election , and the 2000 election also delivered a fairly consequential , policy shifts were nowhere near as large as it was in 1980 and 2008 . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats try to implement the proposals on which they ran .
what is challenged is the nature of these rules . developing countries complain about the restrictive rules being applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) and fear that the new demands that they confront over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . in fact , opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , as well as the impact on corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges entrepreneurship over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . all sides agree that the international economy ’s stability predicated on a system of global rules .
not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , namibia has succeeded in diversifying its economy – a point that service accounts for more than 60 % of its gdp with tourism leading the way . furthermore , geingob recognizes how transparency is protecting it from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . but , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , geingob reports that services account for over 60 % of its gdp with tourism leading the way .
the vulnerability of gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . · “ the inventions of ir # 2 were so significant … that they had taken the full 100 years to have their primary impact . ” · “ both the first two revolutions required roughly 100 years to percolate through the economy . ” consider the following four phrases in his paper : · “ at the trough it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects .
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to react to the inflows that will inevitably drive down their exchange rate and undermine export-led growth . but , in many cases , the inflows are fueled by short-term factors , fads , and the irrational exuberance that can lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export industries or import-competing industries , lost competitiveness , and , ultimately , large current account deficits , and so tighter external constraints on growth . that may be the right response if inflows and the upward pressure on the exchange rate drive the fundamentals ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . that problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
as long as labor-force participation rates were 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it was in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just above 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . moreover , the drop in unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions that have discouraged many labor-market workers from remaining in the labor force . yes , some progress has been made toward recovery . plunging debt service is largely an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . if labor-force participation rates remain prohibitive , as they were in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as they were in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just above 11 % , not 6.7 % .
in london , prime minister david cameron is out of the question of the question . he then announced a bold consolidation program aimed at cutting the cyclically-adjusted deficit by 1.5 % of gdp a year , in order to forfeit any opportunity for sleight-of-hand . countries facing the fiercest budget battles are , instead , the united kingdom and america , where fiscal deficits surpassed 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offing . upon assuming office , he mandated budget forecasting a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any possibility to sleight-of-hand . but , while she likes to elevate her voice , she acts with caution : today , germany ’s fiscal adjustment is in reality very gradual .
indeed , the demilitarization of sinai is one vital feature of egypt ’s stability in peace with israel . other large and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subjected to the goal of limiting themselves to acquiring certain arms and military equipment . similarly , refusing palestinian refugees ’ say to the right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just . are they set back to return to homes and farms that no longer exist ? what sense would it be ?
renzi ’s proposed reforms would modernize italy ’s political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from gaining full power again , and to block any criminal charges likely to spill over against him . in austria , voters will choose between a pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a hofer victory could add wind to le pen ’s ’s ’s sails . in austria , berlusconi will choose between a pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) .
would a truly self-confident ruling elite have become so skittish at its activism ? as the political scientist kevin brien has argued , china ’s ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treat all forms of collective activism as subversive , may be seen as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most worrying moves may be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of the wahhabi critic liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in jail on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . still , it is important to remember that there is a positive facet of the party ’s self-confidence .
but it makes little difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad . anti-dumping laws are designed to ensure fair trade by making it a target for intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations . within the developed world , there has long been apprehension for such behavior by the so-called predation '' '' '' '' -- and for well-defined norms . but it does make a difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad . within developed nations , there has long been a fear of such behavior -- the so-called predation '' '' -- and well-defined norms were developed .
arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous politics that will bring few quick returns . but initiating treaty ratification goes nowhere fast in the american senate and progress on other key issues was slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to force ; initiating negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation treaty with effective corrective action ; and discouraging treaty walk-outs ; reaching an agreement on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; beginning negotiations about a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective verification and avoidance of treaty walk-outs ; achieving agreement on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and providing for all new nuclear-armed states to enter into force ; and not every year , however , for us-russia to enter into force . if this is to be avoided , continued leadership from the top , above all from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will be indispensable . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , all will be all too easy for a commitment to wane .
their interiors resemble an inside smooth plastics jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to suffocate oneself . this “ apparent suicide ” apparently took without regard for the military . i had just toured those cells : it was literally impossible for them to kill themselves . “ this was the investigation , ” it was the ” he replied . i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible for them to kill themselves .
moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc works with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . in south africa , for example , unodc established three centers ( in mcmalanga , east cape town , and sierra leone ) to offer legal advocacy and medical care to women , working with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve the reporting and prosecution rate , which remains low in many countries . but gathering information merely amounts to only one step toward closing loopholes in nefarious laws , and to overcome gaps in prevention policies . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the incidence of drug treatment and alcohol use .
adding to the attractiveness of the emerging-market sovereign-bond portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with returns to equity . such findings are not an invitation to embrace inimical risk . beyond reversing history itself , there is the view that emerging and developing economies now account for around two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just over one-third in just one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely home-affairs . a key driver of the larger ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon such sovereign-bond purchases . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and coercive powers in external sovereign-debt markets have increased in the run-up to the recent american court judgements .
what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wrecked . in countries ( sweden , for example ) where recourse borrowing allows seizure loans from household incomes to enforce payments on mortgage obligations , private consumption may plummet as debt payments ( and , eventually , rising interest rates ) crowds out discretionary spending . but higher home prices enable borrowers to take flight from the home when its value exceeds that of their home ; the housing bust may be leading to massive defaults and banking crises . either way , the result would be the same : recession and economic stagnation . in countries where default lending enables borrowers to leave out of a home when one ’s value exceeds that of one ’s home , a housing bust can lead to massive default and banking crises .
tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned america about the dangers of iraq ’s possible implosion , and now finds itself in an unequal face-off with iran . but the arab world is divided over how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power . in this view , the us , not iran , has produced the region ’s current difficulties . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran ; stand up for sunni arab interests ; and become a step-by-step approach to regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will merely lead to broader wars , urging dialogue and accommodation .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations – but the path to end the trade war remains far from clear . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness .
when asked to make a choice between the risks of being known with posterity as the central banker letting the system collapse and the intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers a lesson , this does not take genius to predict the central banker ’s decision . but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck again , knowing that they will at worst be bailed out . even as the authorities insist that another time will be different , all are well known that they will make the same type of decision , when faced with the same choice once again . after all , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically important , like finance or property , to enable them to privatize gains and socialize losses . so , knowing that next time will not be different , the authorities are trying their best to prevent another “ choice ” next time .
of course , while such disparities may have other causes as well , geography does not seem to explain much . but , in modern industrialized , urban-rural , and market-based societies , what might matter increasingly is the cost of transportation , which means that geography may generate deep regional inequalities . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country embarked on market reforms and opened up the world . when one major continental country , including india and brazil , only china has a tiny segment of coastline , but vast interior regions . when one major object to human consumption was the sustenance , this was not a problem because what mattered was land and water .
fifth , in a political milieu that prevailed in 2009 , it would be hard or impossible to get more money for the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) . the idea that some versions of the soros plan would produce accelerating growth was speculative at best . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of the mortgage play on aggregate demand ( carried out by the us and which johnson and soros have not ) do not hold their claims : the extra spending per dollar of relief was likely to amount to less than dime about the $ dollar of government resources expended . most of the gains from mortgage flows to consumers only over time are attributable to the system . this leaves aside the next lesson , gaining from experience with the fact that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive for growing lending .
keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of its few to survive ) . because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . governments , consistent with the conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with a modest bias toward inflation to try to stimulate “ animal spirits ” from businessmen and shoppers . in the ten years leading up to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of roughly 2 % , in order to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ” in the decade leading up to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks established an inflation target of around 2 % to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ”
in law , the british can avoid unwelcome eu developments because the union rests on the treaty ; that is why the brics have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the brics have already lost that power , because they demanded , and will become , the right to choose from participating in emu . today , the brics appear to be an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the rest of a more integrated eu . in practice , the brics have already lost that power because they have demanded , and have come to a head under the power of anti-european europeans . margaret thatcher was always an adversary to the ideal of a politically integrated european .
princeton – democracy everywhere is facing major challenges . the united states is gripped by the most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a revival of national sovereignty is fueling the leave campaign . brazil is being paralyzed by a constitutional crisis in france . europeans are exposing their malaise to the european union ’s democratic deficit .
persuading bondholders to reach an agreement would be challenging , even more so in view of recent court rulings in the united states , which have been strengthened by the hand of holdout investors . in order to avoid exciting markets , something would need to be voluntary . yet there is no superior alternative , either . in view of uncertainty about a country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . ukraine would be an ideal re-profiling candidate .
racked up through sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage its water resources . at rukban , jordan ’s refugee camp ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each receive barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking , and washing . racked up through sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage its water resources . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a bare minimum , a decision that affects the millions of those who are already enduring scorching temperatures . in shortage times , it is refugees that are likely to be among the first to feel the impact .
first , jgbs ’ volume has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets . and , reflecting japanese corporate aging , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it harder for the private sector to finance its annual budget deficits . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed up by taxpayers ’ assets . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will stimulate demand for fiscal expenditures , as pension and health-care costs rise . japanese households hold roughly ¥ 1,100 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) in net currency assets , an amount that will be exceeded in about 3-5 years by jgbs ’s value .
after some procrastination and an initial failed attempt , milosevic has been arrested without bloodshed , if not without repercussions . these are great strides forward , and they demonstrate that , despite the brainwashing and accomplices of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , a democracy and an open society has a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . after some procrastination and an initial failed attempt , milosevic is whether milosevic should have been extradited to the hague . one key decision facing serbia and its new authorities is whether milosevic should have been extradited to the hague . the peaceful montenegro vote last weekend may presage a conflict and difficult decisions on independence , but chances are strong that the parties will settle these issues by speaking rather than fighting .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , rises , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , when needed , publicly name and shame . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed indispensible . on the other hand , it should shore up its support for the ecb ’s independence . that does n’t mean that ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . a good central banker must be able to say that no to politicians .
it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond its macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals underutilized , owing to the absence of local co-financing . indeed , greece might partly count for large amounts of regional development aid from the european budget , under-venture , owing to a lack of local co-financing . europe ’s ultimate flaw was some level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . it went until last summer to recognize , and even then only to a modest degree , that aid may be used to support economic recovery .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present throughout much of europe , as distressed economies try to stabilize and grow at the same time . joint financial backstops were put on hold . notwithstanding the important decisions that have been made over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do more to tackle the challenges facing the eurozone as we know it . reform and consolidation measures across the eu are under way . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it stands for europe .
but the rise of interactive social networking has made more bottom-up financial innovation more bottom-up . in the future , client-services and transaction-management systems will get more of their customers ’ input out more frequently , in order to shape product design interactively . the current strategy in the financial sector is driving over-competition by rising market shares at the expense of rivals , often breaking down trust with customers for the benefit of short-term gain . millions of bank customers using mobile phones can provide instant feedback upon which products and services they like or dislike . yet the financial sector ’s current strategy drives over-competition by increasing the size of market shares at the expense of rivals , often breaking down trust with customers for fear of short-term gain .
today , the upsurge of micro-nationalism is not just the result of the revolt against the empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . that sentiment reinforces if the global economy turns out to be a global casino . so the unraveling of multi-national states is a false path . there is widespread revulsion over the notion that modern states ’ chief function is to be at the behest of their peoples , who are dominated by the imperatives of effectiveness and cheapness , heedless of harm to non-economic activity . the way forward depends on a democratic form of federalism that can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood ’s purposes , while respecting local and regional cultures .
indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington , dc , was viewed by many – and particularly in china – as the passing of the torch . if there is any merit to underscoring , it is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : american that ’s glass is invariably half as full and half-empty . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will have continued to insist that the americans had so well . still , it is right to wonder whether america ’s path of life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america , or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and the political system crumble under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . pessimists have been saying that this was long overdue .
in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two world ’s cities . london was bursting at dynamism and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . but , even as those uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a sort of zero-sum transfers of emotions that are impossible to ignore . paris , while undeniably fairer , was in danger of becoming the new rome , a captive of its past glories , at best the site of their visit , but not the place where they are to be . in the past , confidence traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two cities .
they have become key players in the market , holding back some 25-35 % of all agreements in agricultural futures contracts . empirical evidence yields no clear answer about which hypothesis is at hand . these speculative investments can reinforce the trend further , pushing futures pricing further away from the market equilibrium point , especially as long as many investors follow suit or those who invest sufficiently have the money to influence the market . beyond investing huge amounts of money , they hold long-term futures contracts , which may make them even less likely to overreact to changing market fundamentals . the index funds are an example among such powerful corporations , which are the largest at any time in the world .
if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will be called , and the world will need to live with the consequences . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the world ’s safety while undermining american values . for opposing it , i have been demonized by the bush campaign . president bush ran in 2000 on a platform promising a “ humble ” foreign policy . i have never been enormously preoccupied with partisan politics , but these are not normal times .
indeed , the change brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the wars of succession that followed annihilated large sections of serbia ’s traditional educational and skills-training systems , portugal , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the welfare institutions that gave shape to life . the 1999 balkan stability pact and massive international aid helped to rebuild local learning , while developing innovative vocational education and training systems that should boost long-term employment . the balkan stability pact and massive international aid helped to rebuild local education , while the development of innovative vocational education and training systems that should boost long-term employment . since then , stability and hope have started to return to the lands afflicted by war ’s destruction and widespread despair of social displacement .
whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . there is an element of expression in iran that applies to the international community as well : “ you can wake up only to someone slyly , not someone pretending to be asleep at everyone ’s interest . ” as a result , two important steps have now been taken : one by iran ’s side , showing that they understand the challenges they face , and another by its new president , who has assembled the best team at the disposal to commit an unbelievable program . there can be no going from the middle east ’s agony without the participation , commitment , and determination of all parties . there is an element in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake up to only someone who is sleeping , not someone pretending to be asleep .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies soaring , and stock markets in free-fall , it may at first seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put ecological investment back on hold . in the past , concern about the environment was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a need , a tipping point grasped by some , but by no means means to all of its economic architects yet . far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-stretched global economy , the need for environmental investment is precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get order books flowing , and help in powering economies back to health . a large slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states entails a boost to renewable energies , “ weatherizing one million homes , ” and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid . but this would be a destructive mistake of immediate , just as inter-generational .
for morale , the us needs a social compact that finds a purpose for all , a way to demonstrate oneself to be part of society by becoming a worker of some kind . and for that we need a fiscal stimulus , ideally the kind of debt-friendly stimulus that produces taxes and expenditures equally . we might even be happy to work fewer hours if the fallout from an abrupt fiscal crisis does not materialize . but we are not happy with the kind of unemployment that results from an abrupt fiscal crisis . that is why sudden austerity can not be morale builder all at once .
at the heart of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring influences puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring really is required . such decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s ’s economic prospects , and thus how much it can pay its creditors . but many crucial decisions have yet to be made , like how much overall debt relief will be delivered , and how a “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of various kinds of bonds . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board presented a petition on the federal court . that federal law , enacted in june 2016 , also established the oversight board with america ’s commonwealth fiscal decision-making authority .
the european union is even more instructive , owing to the centuries of war that culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired , rather than discouraged , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration . as a result of historical suspicions among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc that still lacks an intergovernmental organization of asean . ceagpol could even become a building block for the northeast asian version of asean , as it is a gateway to southeast asian nations ’ massive markets . an economic bonus for such an effort for an entire region would arise from the opening of direct flights and maritime transport across the taiwan strait . ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean , as it is a gateway to southeast asia ’s immense markets .
many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article suggesting a way to reduce malfeasance among government employees . even some honest officials may be disillusioned , and surrender to the many temptations to use illicit means , such as to raise their incomes to levels that they consider more suitable to their responsibility and training . even some honest officials may be disillusioned , and surrender to many temptations to use illicit means to induce some kind of rotten apples that are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . we suggested among other things that civil servants in vulnerable and important posts receive higher pay , rather than comparable workers obtain in the private sector . even in europe and the united states , higher-level officials usually earn little less than persons with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and dominated headlines . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as a component of “ with syria ’s ” campaigns . but the current rules-based international system – which has endured decades of making – remains most gravely threatened by the civil war in syria . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global human-rights framework and humanitarian law is on trial in the same order . now these risks are being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with the confrontation in the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria to international problems .
to be sure , there is an additional feature that many higher education institutions have at the endowment that they can use to balance inequities . even so , the principle certainly is right : universities must be set free . it will take some time before the creation of such endowments in europe and elsewhere . on a variety of ways , public - and privately held ) contributions are pooled . to be sure , it will take some time before the construction of these endowments in europe and elsewhere .
capitalizing on the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , poor health , and illiteracy on wetlands destruction , and heightened hurricane damage from global warming , economists are showing how well every problem costs each year from 1900 to 2013 . yet , rather than picking up facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to draw comparisons across all areas of human existence to see if the world actually does , or at least worse . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it compares with the total resources at its disposal to repair it . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , war , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – all have a response to the same question : what accounted for the relative costs of this problem in each year , from 1900 to 2013 , all the way to 2013 , with predictions to 2050 .
trade is the transmission belt through which supply adjusts to demand . clearly , investment in food production must rise in the medium and longer term . that proposition may puzzle some , but the rationale is straightforward and irreversible . it enables food to travel from the lands of enough to lands of little . but there is a political prescription available for leaders today that could help remove supply-side impediments : higher commerce .
but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform in place , it threatens to engulf the american economy . trump has assumed office on the promise to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had expected . instead , the quagmire has already grown broader and deeper .
in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and legacy regulation will emerge more efficient . even so , finance may fail in many ways ; lehman collapse is just one in point . it is common for people to update their view of the world with what they saw last ; if what they saw as a strong economy and a stable financial system , they conclude that they had stabilized the system . if this cycle is even around right , battling regulatory fatigue in order to create a safer future will quickly turn to the regulatory confidence that the last war has now won . the fed ’s 2008 series unfigures reveal that its leaders saw such a world .
rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of which steps he takes to alter his detractors ’ minds . at best , they would be declared “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they took to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now make diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously . even if he stopped ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent phrases , at best , he would be seen as acting as “ in remissions . ” but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their writings , whatever the cost of their insanity was supposed to be a symptom .
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has generated a toxic environment for those fleeing geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees must confront while leaving resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental-health tops the list . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve health-care quality and affordability around the world , by developing faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services . it is a challenge that demands more attention not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers to the capacity to deliver indispensable contributions to global public health . such contributions are highly relevant to refugees .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime erected more late , and often eschewed , for quicker industrialization and growth . the current ip regime is far from sustainable . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped the regime clearly put the latter , reflected in their opposition to provisions recognizing intellectual-property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . after all , even among early industrializers , the prevailing ip regime came very late , and it was deliberately eschewed , in order to enable quicker industrialization and growth . the widespread adoption of today ’s robust ip protections is also historically unprecedented .
despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb has repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation against the us dollar in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange market interventions , the fed has intervened only once again . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . throughout this era , the dollar appreciated strongly against the major currencies , and became overvalued by practically every measure . so long as those interests diverge , we should expect little coordinating of foreign-exchange policy between the two major central banks . throughout this period , the bundesbank had been selling dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed had not intervening on all ( figure 1b ) .
the main argument in favor of such a change is that joint eu participation by the eu would give rising europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the u.k. . in the coming g8 meetings ( the world club of wealthy industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , italy , and the uk -- would participate both individually and like the european union ’s members , whose president also attends the eu as a whole . but should the eu now have only a single representative ? after all , a key reason for european integration has been precisely to give a stronger voice to europe in the international arena . regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be supreme symbolic value : affirming a common european stance in international relations and international economic policy .
the idea behind the slippery slope is that when you do x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . indeed , two types of slippery slopes , the logical and sociological – exist . in a logical slippery slope , you slide into the bottom , and embrace morally unacceptable , because there is no way to differentiate it from an acceptable practice . indeed , two types of slippery slopes , logical and sociological exist . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from a single practice to another , even when the two become conceptually different , simply because the existence of one creates a socioeconomic receptive to another .
the central bank attempts to hold down the exchange rate , but ultimately forced out the currency to let the currency float . soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable an economy is to the loss of international confidence . the us economy is facing its deepest severe economic crisis in many decades , no matter how severe a recession . suddenly , foreign lenders curtail the short-term credit lines , too . the result is currency collapse and a wave of bankruptcies .
similarly , rearguard efforts to demonstrate that those opposed to war in iraq were right , and that the americans and britons were wrong , coupled with demands for `` demonstrating '' that the iraqi possessed weapons of mass destruction were nonconstructive , and that merely create mutual irritation . if the us had sought to preserve the un security council and the positions of the existing permanent members , then those actions were more likely to produce just the opposite effect . nevertheless , it is important to realize why america is firm in responding to the core problems of today 's international order . if russia and the other countries that opposed america 's iraq policy at the security council were in fact keen to convince the us not to invade iraq and to resist international law , this was a naïve policy doomed to failure . the world might not have supported america in its unilateral attempt to become america 's global policeman , especially because they may well have introduced more instability .
sadly , this seems likely to come about only with the blessing of both russia and iran , both of which seem more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad ’s regime than to work for his removal . the change that would have the greatest positive impact would have been the emergence of a new government in damascus that was acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating such numbers will quickly run up against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . what is apparent is that public policy can not succeed unless it addresses the consequences , rather than the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees a day – a modern day volkerwanderung – enter germany , owing partly to harsh conditions back home , and partly to the result of germany ’s willingness to take them in .
recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver , the juniper cobra exercise , was conducted for testing israel ’s integration with america ’s ballistic missile defenses . israel has also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to the operation of active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . american sources have described the drill as “ the most complete air-missile defense system that the us ’ve ever done anywhere in the world . ” both sides seem eager to expand the reach of their partnerships with the eu aimed at reaching high levels of interoperability . israel has also joined nato with naval control accounts in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean .
it is a belief that girls were split into separate groups to ensure that any attempt to rescue one group would imperil the others . launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky , too . even if all girls ultimately come home , nothing will ever become exactly the same again for them or their own families . it ’s hard to see how girls could be returned safely . despite talk about a government that negotiates the captors , that option , too , would be fraught with danger .
excessive sanctions lead to a negative-sum game in which a debtor can not recover and its creditors are not conducive to the greater repayment capacity that the recovery would entail . the absence of the rule of law for debt-restructuring delay fresh start and can lead to chaos . three years later , greece is in desperate need of a new round of restructuring . the country played by the “ rules of financial markets ” and managed to finalize restructuring quickly ; but the deal was bad and did n’t help the economy recover . distressed borrowers need a fresh start .
a politically correct but aspirational strategy would be for rich countries to devote resources to developing countries primarily to surveillance . we would expect to see a large range of illnesses among either staff and patients in hospitals where victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps also a subill carrier ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . the anti-influenza drug tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive , and in short supply . history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for ring gadxis , they would often be administered improperly , like in suboptimal doses , in ways that promote viral resistance , and only intensify a pandemic . or perhaps they would be sold at the black market to enrich corrupt government officials .
the best solution is to make western labor markets more flexible by opening the system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulations , and reforming the welfare state . as long as workfare substitutes welfare , wages would become more flexible , enabling eu labor markets to absorb migrants more efficiently . but even with such measures , welfare benefits can artificially boost the incentive to migrate . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute income from above the average to below-average incomes , such gains are likely to occur even as migrants work and pay tax and social-security contributions . if migrants get the welfare benefit , aside from wages , more would be lured into coming than needed , with marginal migrants creating welfare losses for the eu equal to benefits .
palestinian authority troops running the west bank are fearful that a popular , nonviolent intifada could quickly turn violent . but with their government unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as the continued conflict over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . palestinian authority ( pa ) , run by the west bank , fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada might swiftly turn violent . president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy .
the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis – characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished import demand in the west – makes reform all the more urgent . to avoid such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , more pressure to let the renminbi appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . li needs to ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts substantial growth potential , does not slide into a lethargy and falling reliance on the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” wages continue to rise , declining competitiveness vis-à-vis low-income economies , but the growth model remains under-equipped to promote competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . a developing economy can slow prematurely , when externalities are changing the conditions underpinning growth .
to succeed , moon will need to re-examine the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most glaring pitfalls . but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not simply be able to swoop in and implement his agenda . when it comes to public-sector workcreation , for example , the central problem to consider has been the long-term financial burden that such large-scale hiring could create . in fact , with his democratic party holding just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will need to win the support of centrist parties and even the conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public backing .
the causes of obesity are complicated , and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it does not make the hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . and , for every celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , dozens of people embrace major “ hawk ” payments , such as the ultra-sugary beverages that are arguably the tobacco of our generation . it ’s hard for non-profits to compete with the production values embodied in abdomen ’s pepsi commercial , or taylor swift , its diet coke business . according to centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children between 6-11 in the us are not only overweight , but obese . commercial childhood tv programs targeting children are replete with ads for processed foods of dubious value to human health .
this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s nation-states and peoples have become more interdependent than ever , owing to the power of ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems spilling over ever more seamlessly across borders . new powers like china and india are skyrocketing , rather than rising , mixing assertiveness with an emphasis on their continued “ development of ” status . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to solve its own problems , never mind itself becoming a global player . but america today is on the back foot , economically , and militarily . so there is no one in charge right now .
according to the imf , only the american economy will grow more rapidly over the next four years , with the uk then regaining the lead . at the same time , however , there is no question that the uk ’s recovery has selected upward after 2012 . last year , its growth rate was the highest in the g7 . and per capita gdp certainly needs to be preferable to aggregate gdp . no doubt , recovery in the uk began more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter that lies only between man and his god . ” offering assurances to an connecticut group that baptists fearing for their religious freedom , pointed out that the first amendment to establish a establishment clause , as well as a loose exercise clause , constructed a wall of separation between church & state ”
but by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing support for a global order grounded in collective solutions for shared problems . we are making progress on both issues ; but much work remains . i have spoken personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , all of us agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and cease ebola ’s spread . bringing countries together with competing interests and varying resources is a hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and a call for relationships built and maintained over decades , along with alliances with new partners .
consider the example of the american enterprise subsidiary that earns profits in ireland . because of this 23 % penalty for repatriation , american companies generally choose not to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in ireland , us financial securities , or operating businesses anywhere in the world except america . if a foreign subsidiary ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to an american to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay the current american corporate-tax rate of 35 % on its original pretax irish profits , with credits worth 12 % that it has already paid . that subsidiary pays an iranian corporate tax at ireland at a low 12 % rate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
with the right strategy in place , europe can spur its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost production in china and elsewhere . but moving toward a carbon-neutral economy also offers far-reaching opportunities . and , as adam tooze argued , by issuing greek bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” europe can secure greater economic independence from other powers , starting with the creation of the euro as a global currency . furthermore , through the european investment bank , the eu already has a tool at mobilizing massive capital equipment for infrastructure investment , research , and development , as well as other core areas . the problem does not capture national borders , and thus requires collective global action .
and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , in terms of its growing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence – a young country , and that is also an ancient civilization . a little over 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel , giving rise to spectacular economic advances . fifty years ago , seeking to read about india in the west would mostly find books about spirituality . and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence had boomed .
a careful analysis by merkel ’s words shows that she was questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . merkel knows that if america sacrifices her position at home for domestic political reasons , she will neither be replaced with a new leading power or with a new global order that emerge . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe . and , as the world becomes less stable , europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our own interests . what the us will have is a power vacuum , marked by chaos .
there is a more mundane reason why many , even inside the party , view the democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses its control of the country . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . the upshot is that questions like “ are we producing too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . after all , democracy is not just a mechanism to help prevent a country ’s strategic fault lines .
west african states ’ economic community ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the will and the capacity to lift the fight force to intervene militarily in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . likewise , east african countries are pressing for integration projects ahead , appearing to be able to learn from past failures in the region , of which has been the product of hastily constructed , improper , and overly ambitious structures . indeed , a number of exciting practical moves are underway , if not all are pursuing the original regional course set by their own founders . less spectacularly , but perhaps more relevant in the long term , ecowas is setting the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of the single currency now an articulate objective . in south africa , the south african development community ( ecowas ) is also pushing ahead with joint projects , of which transport infrastructure , a blight on much of intra-african commerce .
with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms to go bankrupt than to promote higher employment . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany already is hit . unless a future government is bold enough to derail the pact until now , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high . so , where is this demand-driven growth likely ?
new york – in his remarkable apology to iran ’s catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he believed that sinful priests are tempted to commit sexual acts with children . it was because of the “ new ” and grave challenges to the faith implied by the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . it was because of the “ new ” and serious challenge to the faith implied by the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . and ireland is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . fast-forward social changes emerged , often adversely affecting people with traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values .
such saber-rattling vis-à-vis israel currently is popular in the country . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s justice adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . historically , it has deployed just 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in space , and the military has never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to permit units temporarily stationed there to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . last august , israelis allowed another seven battalions and 20 tanks in zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought in full numbers of additional soldiers , nor bother to transportation the tanks across the suez canal . egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect on the peninsula .
not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate just as highly as well . with powertofly ’s technological capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the highest level to an american company , even though local laws prohibit her from driving a car . with powertofly ’s technological ability to transcend the cultural barriers , a woman can often contribute at the highest level to an american corporation , even though local laws prohibit her from powering a car . their home page shows a smiling young manager , based in chile , ” zaleski , explains , but often can not get the job commensurate with her training for cultural reasons . “ six percent of women in many of the middle east have university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but often can not get jobs commensurate with their cultural causes .
the first reason for hope is that statesmanship comes to a return to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . but in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making the difference . so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe , with its fragile and already challenged position , but there is a positive near-consensus that allowed italy to launch long-overdue structural reforms . it is too soon to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s ’s election as france ’s president . so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe , with ten rational arguments designed to persuade pessimistic analysts , and concern for investors alike that it is a highly premature to bury europe and the eu completely .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university documented , prolonged rates of child unemployment have a severe and enduring negative impact on their children . rising globalization of trade also did n’t help in this regard . children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve to help . yet america did n’t provide it , a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 . many of these decisions turned out badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how it is used ) has wiped out many middle-class jobs .
in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local utilities and transport – the two big industries – should also be considered . but they need to accept rigorous cost-benefit analysis to ensure that any given intervention translates into private investment , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology . too often , they spend money to support private-sector projects that fail to provide a positive return to the broader economy . and they must commit to rigorous cost-benefit analysis to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth . it is incumbent upon execution levels that governments often perform poorly .
cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane , in particular , as they consume for $ 4sture . and clean-soils for pasture releases carbon dioxide into a staggering pace . here is where the link between food and climate change originates : as humans climb out of poverty , as germany , companies are demanding more meat and storm . that trend holds grave implications for agriculture in the ecological footprint . with more food available , animals consume more food than they produce .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i are currently striving , has a far more expansionary mandate . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and advancing sustainable development . for starters , they must rebalance the fight against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , raise educational access , or address corruption . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , a central bank governor , and now a foreign minister , i have worked for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have overseen the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state . the leaders of these organizations must make complicated decisions in allocating their finite resources .
many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have had historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by a democratic contest between center-right and center-left parties , the breakdown of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond particular party interests . but one of the most fundamental reasons is just as bleak : european voters are increasingly opposed to immigration , and belittling the left by curtailing it . berlin – a europe established left facing the threat of extinction – is confronting head-on .
finally , it would enhance america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s major strategic rival , china , which has become increasingly dependent on middle eastern energy supplies . it would enhance us economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower cost that the us contributes to shale gas extraction . at the same time , america is expected to become an energy self-self-sufficient in 2020 , becoming an oil exporter by 2030 . that scenario would yield at least three enormous advantages for the american economy . it would diminish america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world as well .
the gap between their objective analysis of reality and their government policies has become a chasm . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp today is set to be reallocated first to that of the world ’s poorest segments . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the widening divide in incomes and other indices among some affluent towns that benefited from the rise of globalization and the rest of the country . at the same time , traditional parties could learn something from listening directly to voters , rather than only through the media filters and pollsters . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a domestic leader craft tax cuts based on where one lives .
how many lives , but now , must be asked about how many lives € 1 billion could be saved . whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it is apparent that the us could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low - and middle-income countries than the us could by spending it in france . suppose that we save the lives of those in need of 60 more years , that about $ 9,000 years of annual benefits are equivalent to saving 150 lives every year . let ’s suppose that a visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be past that time , which means , in effect , an extra hour spent in notre dame , or , more recalling one ’s own visit , as an extension of someone ’s life by a given hour . beyond that , how much life is that worthwhile ?
on september 20 , the german government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of emission-reduction measures . on september 20 , the german government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) in order to accomplish the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as a battering ram against the schwarze null . in the us , such a package would be called the green new deal . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not need to imply larger budget deficits . spending on like energy and the environment may be helpful .
in the real world , opening up is not a simple matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may not be focused on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and occasionally deflect attention from them . any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be clear : i am not asking the conventional versions of a gains-from-trade theory ; but extravagant claims have made about the consequences of openness . it requires a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and policy resources . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of the true article , for it unleashes expectations unlikely to be fulfilled .
with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only the superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , there should be no surprise that damaging projects are often enacted , despite having failed to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , seas must be made rigorous , credible , and transparent . yet , as the examples cited above reveal , seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . this is because , as it stands , technology specialists typically conduct ocean seas at the behest of project developers , a practice that , as climate activists have highlighted repeatedly , is grossly unethical .
but there are signs that such assumptions are now being challenged . by contrast , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always , and everywhere , the public good is getting good . prior to the crisis , regulators focused primarily on eliminating trading barriers , and generally favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering faster , cheaper trading in a broader range of financial claims . perhaps such ease and efficiency do not also fuel market instability and serve the interests of intermediaries rather than their corporate clients ? that is no longer the case , either .
and xinhua wasted no time in arguing that the abuses were confined to a few towns . following arduous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc had decided to investigate it . yet central government authorities had done little to stem the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers . central authorities seemed to feel the imminent need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control effort . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for violence might be prosecuted .
overreactions and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , as failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily against the emerging asian economies . they are also undercutting asian economies ’ need for stronger financial safety nets . these risks explain why the fed ’s simply suggestion of a potential move toward reduced its purchases of long-term asset debts ( so-called quantitative easing ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . tighter american monetary policy might have been exacerbated by a global credit shortage , putting upward pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems .
for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies the powers that control everything that matter in life ; they support it , regardless of the policies it implements , because there can be no alternative to do otherwise . the question today is not about the outcome of next year ’s us presidential election ; that has already been determining . with a presidential term now stretched to six years , one can expect to have an encore lasting up of 12 years , longer than putin ’s previous performance . that question today is not about the outcome of next year ’s us presidential election ; it has already been decided . for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies the very powers that control everything that matter in life ; they reinforces it , no matter how great a policy that implements it , because there can be no one otherwise .
but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with excessive powers , an underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of its ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) were defectors from the old regime . then he began vetoing virtually all of the government ’s decisions , causing a political stalemate , and reaching an end to his presidency tacitly to the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to their credit , actually voted against the constitution ) . the other major shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , has turned out to be a feckless , irresponsible president . originally , he traveled the world throughout the next for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process falls exceedingly fast .
the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . it embodied the conviction that indians ’ goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being should remain in indian hands , not to mention to indians seeking to profit from the production and sale of such goods and services , but rather to the devoted hand of the state , the father , and mother to all indians . inefficiencies disguised generous subsidies from the national treasuries , and a combination of vested interests , socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , business unions , and monopolies were able to maintain it beyond political criticism . given this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging public-sector utility .
potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is as lofty as when , say , cancer research . but persuading fundamentals and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connections and engagement , not ai-enabled algorithms . with the ad-driven business model ’s limits becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders close to one-third , according to the reuters institute ’s global surveys , believe that in the future foundations and nonprofits will play a central role in supporting the media . for organizations without clout , and for digital revenues , times , a people-oriented approach may also be necessary to secure investment . tech alone can not nudge democracy , help answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by expanding accountability .
to forge such a coalition , m5s would need to adopt a responsible and explicit economic program , with the democrats forced to accept being a junior partner of an untested insurgent force . to forge such a coalition , m5s would need to adopt a responsible , clear-sighted economic program , and that the democrats would need to accept being the junior partner of an untested insurgent force . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to try to stimulate m5s and the league in order to form a coalition that he has denounced as the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would breach the eu . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . a pro-eu italy governed by a precisely reckless former democrat coalition might join with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear foreign-policy voice for the eu vis-à-vis america , russia , and china ; and implement a green-oriented grand strategy .
my statements have also been motivated by troubles of the road to impose capital punishment in india . and , indeed , the country ’s last three executions , stemmed from terrorist offenses that threatened or took huge numbers of lives . indeed , whether the death penalty is bandied about depends on several variables , beginning with court and social biases . yet the decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective . the supreme court has declared that the death penalty should be applied only in the “ rarest of the rare ” cases .
while this time around , the gains will likely be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scope of the fed ’s tightening , the interest that it pays on its savings will shift household income in the right direction : up . the long-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . as the fed gradually raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding their hard-earned savings into the bank will at last start realizing some of their deposits ’ return . and average hourly wages for all of their employees in private-sector non-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . the prolonged period from 2004 to 2006 should not be underestimated .
beijing – most western media have characterized china ’s recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power games , with president xi jinping entrenching his position . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage , deftly , a major social and economic transformation , while all the more important , improvement in state governance . for xi , that end marks a smooth transition toward the modernity that cements the cpc ’s long authority , securing his own legacy as an increasingly important leader for china . and , to secure what has the long-term survival of china ’s one-party system , he must reform the state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is the key to xi ’s economic reform agenda . but hoarding political capital is a means .
at best , our proposal might fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , thereby transforming economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . yet , even with all the difficulty of dealing with corruption and inefficiency , which will undoubtedly plague its actual implementation , our proposal encumbered by the status quo . after all , dire conditions today are the product of staggering corruption and garbage over the past 40 years . the time for action now is right . another issue is how much of the revenues should be channeled , and how transfers can effect them down as large , complex , and financially backward like nigeria .
the fragility of financial markets can generate severe economic and social dislocations . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises hard questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and a lack of financial information that can not be ignored . financial markets are best understood as a historical process , and history never quite repeats itself exactly . the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in an abstract way , for each situation is different .
indeed , the sars experience in toronto , where cases escaped detection and lead to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about excessive optimism about the apparent control of bigger , geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . these epidemics may , indeed , be eliminated entirely in the coming months . yet it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus reintroduced into human animal populations . in fact , health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will be required if sars resurfaced . screening travelers from affected regions might avoid major epidemics elsewhere as well .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for addressing transparency in resource revenues , while unnecessarily reconstituting the wheel in that process . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is just one of the most efficient vehicles to achieve a global disclosure and accountability standards . it is hard to see how a future way of democracy can take root if a country ’s most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . nor does the us and britain used their power in iraq to promote transparency in the arab oil sector . let us hope that the new iraqi government does a better job .
this is not to say that israel should be consoled by the macabre arithmetic of carnage . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to the abuses by all other nations combined . joyce karam , the washington bureau ’s a pan-arab newspaper , believes that this is because “ muslims killing muslims or the arab killing arab looks more acceptable than israel killing arabs . ” the stories of israel are focused almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; the surproperly fewer gazan casualties they generate .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor the stability of many developing countries . yet , whether fueled by a narrow ideology or responsive to the demands of special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization in its bilateral trade treaties . the other issue concerns the inappropriately designed intellectual property provision ( trip ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by american pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done . these provisions restricted to making generic imitations of drugs , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries .
as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , has been the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . meanwhile , governments will be working together on additional measures to decarbonize the ecological and climate impact of the global maritime trade system . in the coming years , we can expect to see data indicating reduced health-care costs and improved educational outcomes from around the world . now that the cap comes into force , we will soon reap the extraordinary impacts of a new , sustained global health dividend . such efforts are vital to meeting the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . indeed , it first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : “ “ the “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” “ a rosy scenario , ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ potentially starvation of a beast ” scenario . aspiring fiscal conservatives worldwide therefore might have an interest in learned four tricks that commonly used american policymakers when promising to cut taxes while running down budget deficits simultaneously . these are hard promises to keep , for the simple reason that running budget deficits equal government spending at minus fiscal revenue . but each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades .
first , governments bail out the largest banks rather than allow them to collapse and devalue the economy . second , and worse , being too big to fail to help big banks grow even larger as lenders and trading partners prefer to work with the banks that have an implicit government guarantee . so which is this : are the banks still so risk-averse ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments would bail out the largest banks , rather than let them collapse and policy-induced .
in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration , offering further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries ask . though it is not yet possible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . the alliance ’s ultimate goal must be to ensure that it moves forward . participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily be ahead of small steps .
macri is best described as a “ liberal ” in europe ’s sense . but that label is not exactly correct . argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is often described in the international press as “ the center-right . ” in argentina , the left-right divide has been blurred in france by the policies of the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party that privatized state companies in the 1990s , only to re-nationalize them later . moreover , “ the center-right ” ” ” ” often implies no proper check .
women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , while the heightened risk of developing ovarian cancer would be about 55 % for women with a brca1 mutations , and roughly 25 % for women with brca2 mutations . increased breast cancer risk is also known to be associated with a few inherited syndromes like li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that is further linked to childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissues sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation have identified so-called modifiatesse snp - that can both reduce or increase individual lifetime risk . in most areas of familial breast cancer , however , genetic predispositions remain elusive . most recently , huge studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , a condition that runs further during the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including
xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . after prevailing during world war ii , america immediately and uncompromisingly dominated the globe . the primacy of this domestic agenda means that china ’s attempt to lead global change will lack a clear vision and a coherent strategy . a second problem arises from china ’s incomplete transitions on the world stage . in its quest to lead the next stage of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most important asset . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on an understanding of the enormous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . as a result , we are one of the few countries prepared to move beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement . and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean an estimated 3.3 million fewer dengue cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer at-risk people about malaria , and less food instability and poor nutrition resulting from higher temperatures and an volatile weather system . costa rica is proud to lead the world by putting this approach to good practice .
but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : the proposed $ 6.5 trillion in sales by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . there is now a genuine hope that talks along these lines can succeed . they have since been restarting , an olive branch sent to the obama administration by china ’s government . china-us defense cooperation talks have earlier stalled because of such arms-for-land negotiations . there is now a genuine hope that talks along these lines can succeed .
speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff might have said that “ i have support in washington . ” and ignatieff has had some support , at least initially . these days , it is time for some support in brussels . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over a government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” which the university has said is meant to force it from that country . i have support in berlin , i have support in budapest [ … ] i have support in munich .
one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat stroke effects , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believing that it would be effective . several 36 % of chinese doctors think the effectiveness of acupuncture remains dubious , perhaps because the science foundation for it remains so new . but recent systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatment have begun this . almost all trials on acupuncture as a stroke conducted within china have been positive . for instance , most chinese doctors and patients have long regarded acupuncture as an effective treatment for stroke , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believing it to be effective .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies , particularly france , began to undershoot their inflation-targeting objectives . economists also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , the artifact of a 1960-70s , when organized labor became much stronger . yet , even more important , this might be the reason that measured productivity remains persistently weak . clearly , the notion that employee will always resist cutting wages ( or their hours of workers ) no longer applies . in fact , falling labor power may explain why the phillips curve no longer appears to be holding true .
at the same time , a modern economy requires risk-taking as well . a country ’s most precious resource , however , is its people . so it is crucial to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which in turn requires educational opportunities for all . at the same time , a modern economy needs risk-taking , too . to be sure , governments can enhance growth through inclusiveness .
this haughty attitude contrasts starkly with the jargon of “ “ “ “ consenting ” a patient ” ” – as though that was something undertaken to a patient , like drawing blood or administering the injection : “ dr. smith , please go on the consent of mr. jones . ” consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket being held out for the conductor . the problem is compounded when consent comes just hours before a major surgery , and months after the recent consultations with the surgeon . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , one that he or she might choose to relinquish if presented with an adequate compelling case . this may lead patients to consent to the practices that they are neither understood nor desire .
those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , are better able to manage their careers and command higher wages . nonetheless , as talent shortages loom , the need for retaining employees could tip the balance toward greater investment in professional advancement . so far , this abundance of choices has discouraged firms from spending sources on employee training , who might soon decide to join a competitor . employers that provide learning opportunities are becoming a destination for talent . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable .
it would portray the wider idea of the “ singularity , ” ” ” ” a hypothetical turning point when the man-made surpasses the human . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might point to networks of computers fighting one another , while humans stand by . such a digital ecosystem reinforces checks and balances , impairing the possibility of failure and mitigating the impact of an incursion . fortunately , in that case , life is still a long way from imitating art . similar to the traditional military-command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and could react quickly to widespread attacks .
it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure dfft , and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide . the g20 summit in osaka is come at the dawn of a new era , reiwa ( “ “ beautiful harmony ” ) , in japan . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the “ science20 , ” a member created by the g20 ’s national science academies of countries . on april 30 , the world witnessed the abdication of his majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of improved data storage and governance ” ( cfe ) , which ensures open access by researchers globally , ” and “ sharing information gained through research activities undertaken under massive and multinational collaboration ) to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics .
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and stalking talent , investment , and business people from around the world . the american-canadian author and urban activist jean jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . and municipal services are often more visible to citizens than to federal aid ; consider , for instance , who responds during a traffic accident or a natural disaster . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges . cities power growth through innovation , commerce , and exchange are often more visible .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas lyndon friedman , the author of the world is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china that america ’s unfair trade practices . the danger is not only that the economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would threaten global prosperity ; that such developments also raise the risk of a major us political confrontation . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict was brought about solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and exchange , and the nationality of us corporations , even major multinational corporations , would become just that – just as their business model would be . if that is where trump ’s predecessor , hillary clinton , confronts the us economy against not only trump ’s america , but liberal america as well .
new political realities were highlighted by the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy sources in the developing world , and russia ’s assertiveness on foreign and domestic policy . instead of accepting the international system roughly as it does , with all of its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to change the rules , in their favor . in a small-state setting , imposing a dense web of controls is probably leading to a loss of mobile factors of production , while in a great state making it harder for labor or capital to flee . on the international scene , large states are trying to make international rules , and often building their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape a larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ globalization ” . small states ’ nervousness , and their dread , has started to rise roughly in 2000 .
a law restricting transportation strikes has taken effect on january 1 , and sarkozy intends to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to around 61 , from 60 . as a result , democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy . this opens the way for more and more deeper reform . instead of repealing the laws , overtime work is to become easy and relatively cheap .
their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will likely hamper efforts to place europe ’s economy on the sounder footing . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have consistently resisted growing capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that doing so is an indispensable element of effective reregulation . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will likely hamper efforts to realign europe ’s economies on the sounder footing . with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it did in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing financial reforms in the eurozone is in fact a more difficult place . governments regard home banks as important buyers of sovereign debt as money .
similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals to fight for causes estranged from mainstream america . ” that reflects an essential conflict between walmart and trumpism : the latter aim to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and the immigration that comprised the former . to consolidate support , thatcher would be taking a head-to-head embrace of carefully selected enemies – from the british petroleum to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to bureaucrats in brussels . yet , although ideas are different , tactics are the same . each time , trump ’s opponents are marching to women , muslims , or sexual minorities , forging trump ’s core support base .
compassion this secured gave the president his razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate , and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . now , taiwan ’s young democracy must cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election has thrust upon it . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed march 20 presidential election – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to the breaking point . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only a third such a democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to the bullet . young democracies may be cruelly felt : their voters are often as unforgiving as political opponents .
but rising russian living standards remain central to putin ’s grip on power and his long-term legacy . in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts little better than mexico . even before intervening in ukraine , putin ’s failure to deliver on his lavish promise , made in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s ’s ’s economy within ten years . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the top . in this regard , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts little better than mexico ’s .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to be elected to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva was to theirs : the man of the left who is moving toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . on the assumption of power , kim and lula managed to adjust , politically and psychologically , to the new realities that confronted them , launch much-needed reforms . both confronted immediately with the international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neoliberal ” ) , and may not have been possible under the right-wing politicians . like tsipras , both were already elected during the economic crisis .
but history haunts modi 's campaign -- namely , deaths from over 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . annual national economic growth averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad short-listed muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this did not stop modi from taking political risks , beginning with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but its decision to run for prime minister is by far its riskiest move , as it tests its national appeal . annual national economic growth has averaged more than 10 % since 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed by lee kuan yew of the country 's township .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; the eu is simply discouraging an initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , the chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp a year . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit . a chinese businessman told me that real growth is less than half that of the official figure . perhaps that can collide with the private sector ’s dynamism ; even there , fear of loss of control increases the party ’s role .
how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its neighborhood . but , as turkey builds closer ties with america and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with an increasingly assertive russia , willing to demonstrate itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean , and able to retain its foothold in syria . for better or for worse , the status quo in the middle east has unraveled , with turkey forced to reevaluate and recalibrate its regional policies . turkey ’s real strengths are its thriving economies , a secular democratic system , and its ability to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . meanwhile , turkey and the united states have a mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran .
these remedies have reduced the rate of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially those aged 15 to 49 , remains on the rise ) . the government aligned its early antiretroviral therapy programs for existing sufferers , beginning in 2008 , with early monitoring programs by pregnant women . with almost two million patients now spending an antiretroviral out of treatment , annual aids-related deaths have fallen by about 100,000 since 2005 , with the number expected to rise ) . the government aligned its early antiretroviral therapy programs for existing sufferers , beginning in 2008 , with early monitoring programs for pregnant women . contagion among newborn infants once running at about 70,000 per year has been slashed by some 63 % , and the lives of one million hiv/aids sufferers have been extended by a severe .
astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down a new bone , by creating a sort of substance that inhibits cell lines that break down bone and encourages those producing bone and cartilage . consider the polar bear , threatened with wild extinction by climate change . these mammals spend up to seven months of each year , hibernating , during which time is basically inimical . a human individual would lose one third , or more , bone mass , when immobile for that period of time . but this may happen only if nature ’s cornucopia conserved in order to ensure that current and future generations of researchers can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere .
there is a potent argument as well , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , germany , was attacked , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . but they need stronger support , not only in the field of air or with arms and training , but also of western special forces . an entire alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism , and that would do well to see the end of the cold war . that is around the global order in a stable , prosperous world . yet they need stronger support , not only in france or turkey .
after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe currently seems to be grappling with the question of how much europeans want , how open – and optimistic – it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how much social solidarity is fit . now the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which have increasingly included existential questions about europe ’s survival and that of the entire european project . that means that candidates in the coming year ’s eu elections are unlikely simply to focus on domestic issues . these debates , and thus the european parliament that emerges next year , are unlikely to conform to the standard party lines . while there will be some of this , the eu is likely to suffer first , during the big debate over europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas like migration , defense and security , energy , and climate , and relations with the major powers like the united states and russia .
it was , after all , excessive regulation – capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and the u.s. treasury – that culminated in the 1997 financial crisis . the question should have been not about how to deregulate quick deals , but about how to develop the proper regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host other things , which even the best performing market economies could not meet . market failures are a case in point , but so are government failures . • while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not provide laws and order , ca n’t enforce contracts and can not ensure a safe , sound banking system .
an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas rate cutting is a boon to borrowers . to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different impacts on different groups in different times alike . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . they certainly do , but so in kind ? any and every monetary-policy activism redistribute wealth .
in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might appear . nominal wages can continue to rise , while actual wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . even if real wages rise in some coastal cities , the “ surplus labor force ” could keep the national average flat . so the conclusion seems to be that rising wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years . and even real wages rise at the national level will not undermine competitiveness unless labor productivity grows faster .
because german exports surpassed its imports by almost $ 200 billion in the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . clearly , germany ’s net exports would remain high , even as the euro appreciated substantially from its current level . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we need to look at the trade balance . because german exports have been attractive to foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) .
in the weeks leading up to the polls , the public seemed to have grown weary of a prime minister who was in office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power , and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . these structural elements were reinforced by developments in the region , which strengthened the sense among israeli voters that they were being victimized by numerous enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; isis ’s rise amid state failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , as well as his terrifying tactics . he ran a campaign that relied apparently on his eloquence and charisma .
throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best-laid blueprints scenario can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil had been discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production had begun in 2010 . but , with the latest year of the presidential election , the situation had begun to get worse as well . the coming year , petroleum revenues management act divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . investment , therefore , should be phased in gradually , potentially implying temporarily storing some oil wealth abroad .
since then , however , hedge funds have grown in importance , with secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and america ’s enthusiasm for greater transparency has waned . in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis for the failure of transparency in financial markets . but there are some major differences between now and now . most developing countries , indeed , have been accumulating massive foreign-currency reserves . as it stands , hedge funds have grown in importance , and secret bank accounts have thrived .
in any case , the hardships suffered by the eu could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s ultimate prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas in order to compensate for reform and fiscal consolidation in others . if they look to the ecb , they will discover the right model for deploying them . if they look at the ecb , they will be able to minimize them at the same time . european policymakers have the tools , and the intelligence community needs to maintain their grip on power in ukraine . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most .
think of the appeal of movies like thelma and louise , or of a working girl in which the draw is a gutsy , exploited secretary who , trampled off by a snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to shut down a dream of a job , a dreamman , and a corner office . so , when sarah palin is escorted by the media limelight , she will become america ’s symbolic revenge fantasy of those silenced , the country ’s exhausted factory workers , and its secretaries . to glimpse a working-class white wife is chosen to serve a heartbeat away from the american president resonates powerfully with them . they perceive an underclass that they believe receives the benefits denied them and a thriving economy in the developing world that siphons away from well-paying blue-collar jobs . while reports surmounting that palin tends to serve a heartbeat from an american president resonates powerfully with them .
that change will give china a far better chance of shunning the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that a early-stage takeoff recipe is sufficient to achieve developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and america ’s ties them together inextricably . in recognizing the need to switch from a predominantly export-oriented model – and with investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through the service sector ) – to the next . china has already delivered on that front , by abandoning the growth model that it successfully navigated the country in terms of economic development for over 30 years .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) to lead efforts to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most urgent economic issues . while these solutions do have some merit , they are insufficient to address effectively the complex and far-reaching shortcomings that have driven the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . the crisis has represented a collective systemic failure , involving breakdowns at nearly all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level institutional incentives . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors that are underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at the end of last year ’s summit , dialogues about central banking , the future of which pittsburgh targeting financial stability have produced three solutions : central banks should embrace a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to support multilateral collaboration among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary goal .
the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability , by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , several innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win large , with the global tech stock boom augmenting their gains . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household saving . piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment impediments , globalization has created a sort of winner-take-all environment , in which the most technologically sophisticated actors acquired the market share through economies of scale .
recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceed that of individual countries — and the international community — to counter such flows . prevention , however , must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . many countries have no foreign-currency reserves that are sufficient to meet sudden , large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . this phenomenon has been all too apparent during the asian crisis , and following the russian debt default of august 1998 . sometimes these outflows can occur through no country ’s fault , but because of the financial market ’s contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere .
most commentators have tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . the only question now in question is whether brown ’s verdict on the euro will be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the next general election , ” or just plain “ no . ” like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing at all . blair believes that britain ought to be joining the eu because it wants britain to be , “ at the heart of europe . ” the decision is to be made virtually independent of prime minister tony blair .
but what can stop the demons already unleashed ? trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including commitments to truth and evidence , has been coupled with an unconstrained “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion , ” and to play on such repressed emotions as racism and classroom envy . the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing problems are deteriorating , and massive opportunities are being missed . there has been some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn outright the white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ “ unite ” the right ” rally in august had ended in the killing of a counter-protester . and , though they are stopped , can the damage they have already wrought ?
what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to free up his income-tax record sharply . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for the average health-insurance cost . that might seem widely beneficial , but it could help only those at high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – for example , most of america ’s annual income above $ 75,000 ( median american household income amounted to $ 54,462 ) in 2015 . indeed , there is no indication yet on how any of his tax policies would be financed directly , and any hint at least sharply expanding the budget deficit .
africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are masolving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . entrepreneurs supported through the anzisha prize , for example , created more than 300 jobs and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs ’ rlabs , they earn zlato loan that can then be exchanged for food , medical care , and basic necessities . and , in south africa , marlon parker , the academy of social innovation and incubator companies , created a virtual currency – called zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . since its inception in 2008 , rowlabs have created tens of thousands of jobs , and are now active in 24 countries .
british leaders need to acknowledge that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and that the country urgently needs to hold a national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences . but this would irritate hardline brexiteers , and might split the conservative party , risk theresa may has been reluctant to take . avoiding that scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and its territorial integrity . but then scotland would demand its own specific arrangements vis-à-vis the eu , pitting the uk against an important constitutional shakeup and perhaps dissolution . the choice lies between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether .
encouraging them to do more , and giving them grounds for doing more , is certainly a worthwhile task for india ’s government , and the overt target of its annual conclave . the importance of diaspora financing , from working-class indians ’ remittances that turned kerala into the millions poured into high-tech companies operating in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors , simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . the country also received $ 70 billion in remittances last year , more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than overseas chinese do . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect to the pravasi ’s bharatiya divas celebration , as suggested by the many parallel seminaries managing the country by state governments to attract expatriate investment .
businesses ignoring the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and brand value loss , falling sales , difficulty in recruiting talent , lower workforce productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or the rise of climate-change-related costs . in response to concerns among their customers , employees , and their shareholders , apple has enhanced working conditions and agreed to regular reviews through an independent observer . companies that score poorly on sales and investors , for example , and triggering official regulatory or statutory action . there are now cellphone apps that evaluate and fine multinational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public officials . apple ’s brand , for example , has recently been shaken by revelations of brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphone and ipads are assembled .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent major exam published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi cao ) , argued that this demographic shift explains much of the rise in saving rates as china ’s substituted capital investment for children . they also tolerate enterprise or government policies that stimulate high saving . but income growth and demography do not explain everything . for starters , the uptrend in saving in china started around the same moment that its one-child policy had been implemented in 1979 . that had prevented the birth rate from rebounding after the cultural revolution of 1966-76 .
in the 1930s , a former supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , the crusty old veteran of america ’s civil war , had been sworn in on behalf of franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate , “ one without a distinguished harvard student . ” most historians would agree that franklin d. roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his historical memory than on his analytical iq . asked later about his impressions by the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; world-class temperament . ” in fact , practical people have long understood its importance in leadership .
since sudan won its independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by near-constant north-south cultural and religious divisions . matters have subsequently been complicated by a distinct conflict , this time among muslims , over resources in the west darfur region . the artificial fusion of mainly arab spring , the muslim north of sudan , and the african south , where christianity and traditional animist faith is predominant , has been a abject failure . a distinct but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will make it possible for voters to choose whether or not to join the north or the south . if the non-muslim south gained the autonomy of much of its religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy through a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country might have remained committed to peace .
nonetheless , my overall experience on the undp and the world bank has suggested that staff and management can and do act in line with article 100 of the un charter . typically , they were formulated in an acceptable fashion , asking me to “ look into ” ” ” requests from government representatives . but i also received requests , often from the global superpowers , in the clear breach of article 100 of the un charter and have been forced to spend big hours if we tried to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . being responsive to member states ’ ’ concerns and priorities was both right and normal ; having embraced orders from them was not .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost some $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of which was due to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . these investors are calling on governments not only to curb rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s toughest target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . more broadly , the investor agenda for a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories some $ 34 trillion , representing about $ 34 trillion of assets under management . meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already received a funding hit . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the company has misjudged the pace of the shift toward green energy and the collapse of demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations .
at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing america . yet trouble with america 's allies , particularly japan , could draw on america in a battle that it strongly prefers to avoid . in short , china is on the brink of big , needed , and dangerous transformations that promise to change the country for the better or to make all , including regional stability , much worse . the whole world has a big stake in what happens next . conflict with the united states is unlikely for now .
south africa ’s nobel prize-winning parliament and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the bill to the apartheid legislation . in late november , the parliament ’s lower-house , headed by the majority african national congress ( anc ) , had overwhelmingly approved a new law , the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose adoption would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . now , however , south africa ’s right to information is in jeopardy . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution ensures the right to public-sector information , and in many cases private business information , as well . south africa adopted the freedom of information laws in 2000 , five years before the united kingdom did .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , though it continues to be robust performer , contributing some one-third of total economic growth worldwide . it is also becoming more sustainable in line with the shift to its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to the g20 summit in hangzhou , china , in hangzhou , japan , has been signaling loudly for new commitments to structural reform to spur growth in both advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china faces serious risk . above all , domestically financed credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating at dangerous levels .
with its economic blueprint in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on yet another goal : expanding its political clout within and outside the region . with its economic blueprint in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on a other objective : expanding its political clout within and outside the region . over the past century , as china began its “ going out ” policy , focusing on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese firms , few had expected that the country would quickly emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . the question now is whether that is good for latin america . in less than 15 years , when china first went from playing a rather fringe economic role in latin america to becoming one among the top investors and trading partners for most countries in the region , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder up .
there is little question , however , about which an american nominee putin would like to see in the white house . there is little question about which an american candidate putin would like to see in the white house . in remarks following the press conference , he praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and “ absolute leader of the us presidential race . ” both are clomate propagandists and the performers . to be sure , both men deserve each other .
in practice , this would entail pursuing policies to aid the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left agenda to account for the implications of disruptive technologies and business models . the other avenue would require macron to build on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . as columbia university ’s economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state , with a view to compensate for those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth . somewhat shockingly , this is the route he originally chose , quickly becoming the darling of a business-oriented international press . after all , the first was adopting the center right ’s agenda , pursuing labor-market , taxation , and investment policies that “ align ” ” ” ” with france under a “ capitalist ” globalization .
“ if you live in a state that looks for mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s ’s fine , ” and that you do not , then may be able to figure out ways to modify the state in which you live in ” or modify “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . under a benign scenario , people would club together disparate states based on their preferences for large or small government , on public or private provision of services , and on international cooperation or isolationism . micro-k mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . “ why are we looking to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ”
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s gdp , are met with nuclear , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . for years , over-dependence on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in clean , power-generation power generation , despite the fact that both countries are green industries innovators , like energy storage and smart grids . south korea ’s strategy is calling for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry , through nonrenewal of existing licenses and bans on future plants . moreover , they are paving the way for increased investment in renewable-power utilities installations , putting their countries in a new competitive footing in the regional market . blueprints remain being formulated , but they use the two countries ’ commitments marks a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies .
because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls american dollar reserves , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply . a floating currency is inevitable as china frees its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender control over its money supply and interest rates to america . still , china ’s rulers are right to postpone a decision to float the renminbi . the chinese can delay , but they can not hide from a fundamental economic rule : if the exchange rate among the two countries ’ currencies is fixed , and capital flows between them are unconstrained , the economically dominant us will exercise control over the latter ’s monetary policy . under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders have agreed to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when .
as the paris agreement recognizes , many scholars believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extraordinarily expensive , particularly for developing countries and island states . can we transform the tap into zero net emissions before the bathtub is hit by a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold established in paris ? the good news is that , if we somehow stop all of our emissions right now , temperatures would continue to rise only for a decade or so , before stabilizing . in fact , even that level may not be low enough . so , we are in a race to the tune .
but what , precisely , is an equitable , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining choices ? i am afraid that this wo n't be a fairly picture . indeed , no one has any idea about the consequences , both for the uk within the global trading system or for the impact of domestic political stability on the moment . mind you , citizens of the west blessed living in a moment of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be tackled through the democratic process instead of foreign and civil wars . is it really sufficient to make 52 % a vote for a rainy day vote ?
defense spending amounts to 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom are likely to grow further in the years to come . so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than bigger ones . security and global influence are not the only benefits that come through military expenditures . but confining discussion of a defense commitment to a cent of gdp spent by the army sounds inadequate because there are economies of scale in defense spending . defense spending accounts for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the netherlands reach 3 % .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly later this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . at the end of the 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era , and felt like a “ present ” at creating ” a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but , at the unga this year , many attendees felt like if they were present at the destruction of that world . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do or tweet . even before the summit started , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south koreans , and japanese were consulted in earnest about the need for a new alliance to save the multilateral system .
bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and a simmering conflict between iran and israel might flare up at any moment . in the medium term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership is likely to be indispensable for resolving . indeed , democracy is fragile , at best across north africa ; and , in the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only just begun to feel the ripple of a tidal wave sweeping the region . even when america is off the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another toward creating a united opposition , working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have shown all too vividly , the arab awakening is still solely in its first act in many countries .
the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the wake of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . in today ’s germany , as no one with a decisive power in business , finance , or government that was witnessing the war , the european project was no longer viewed as conditioning europe on its collective future . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country in economic and cultural spheres of influence rather than merely in eastern europe . these new leaders envision europe just as a trading regime . there would be no common european plan .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such flaws are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system generates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – now seems to be entering russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . but , sadly , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and nefarious entrepreneurial practices , rather than increasing trade or prosperity . when the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither about trade nor freedom . when is a free-trade agreement bad ?
nahda ’s ascent ( renaissance ) , the leading islamist party , appears less a reflection of latent ideological support among a newly liberated individual than he is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill its post-revolutionary political vacuum . the party ’s imposing headquarters in tunis symbolize its position as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . since taking office in january , nahda has opened up over 200 offices . scores of volunteers are deployed in grassroots electoral campaigning , door-to-door grade . while opponents ominously recall the participation of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourist destination in 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of their foreign reserves , reflecting both export-led growth strategies and the desire to avoid replicating the worldwide speculative currency that triggered the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the problem is that , in the traditional sense , foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” . consider first the argument that the dollar ’s status as the reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as their foreign-exchange reserves . the obvious candidate for that reserve fund was us treasury bills . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the funding gap if their imports exceeded their exports .
good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s obligation to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a clear example from history . by bad economics , i mean permitting financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy .
the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to rising global conflicts . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common roadmap for action , with france ’s president nicolas sarkozy calling for a global partnership for food . the world bank has forcefully stressed the importance of farming to jump-starting economic expansion and break the cycle of poverty . countries and organizations are already mobilizing , if not more . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to mankind .
but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are obliged to hold safer bonds . and yet negative bond yields tend to materialize in countries and regions where a currency is depreciating and likely to depreciate further , including by germany , other parts of the eurozone core , switzerland , and japan . of course , negative returns force their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break even ; and , when most of its assets yield a negative nominal return , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to achieve . so , why are investors holding such assets ?
in his first year and a half in office , macron has begun to tackle those problems , by managing to deliver a budget by line with eu deficit rules . and so , when his administration announced plans to raise the diesel fuel tax , the middle – and the working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls suggesting that around 70 % of french support for the yellow vest protesters , macron was forced to retreat . the problem is that , in pursuing these reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . step by step , his reforms have apparently been consistently beneficial to the rich .
in recent years , an intensifying backlash against international cooperation has emerged , rooted partly in fears that stoked populist political leaders in a number of countries , that supranational “ elites ” ” are working to impose “ globalism ” : the “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” but the perspectives that refute that narrative seems to be gaining ground are political . as it stands , perhaps western countries have squandered their grip on the international system by intervening politically and militarily in the affairs of others with no clear endgame . some also argue that the global elite has only just pretended to pursue socioeconomic change , while in fact sustaining a status quo that has benefited them . as it stands , perhaps the greatest obstacles to international cooperation are political .
first , while low rates might stimulate spending when credit became easy , there is no doubt that traditional savers today would go out and spend equally in spending . with rising demand , firms would hire , and all would do well . by pushing up inflation , the fed would switch real interest rates completely negative , making it coercing thrifty households into eu spending . this is an entirely different logic from the one calling for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but it does have an equally severe vulnerabilities . think of a soon-to-retire payroll .
specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , increased a meager 2 % . with those debt cancellation operations largely finalized , data are now revealing stark truths : development aid to africa and poor countries more generally is stagnant , contrary to all the promises that have been made . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . with the first year since the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers have been padded by misleading accounting on debt cancellation operations . while the g-8 made a clear pledge , there has been no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there have been clear guidance that no such plan would materialize .
according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life in the transition survey , produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far outstripped that reality described by formal data , typically based on household survey data . but , at the global level , inequality is declining . and , while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the gains have not been particularly dramatic , and remains at reasonable levels . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have come through inequality . but that is not what the average citizen sees .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve ’s system is one of the world ’s most powerful bretton woods institutions . that is an alarming outcome , given that senior fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 mode , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even as those concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee . america ’s central bank holds control over the provision of dollars , and currently exerts great influence over interest rates , both for short - and long-term borrowing . and , though the fed has been in part responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with an even stronger authority and a greater responsibility to oversee the financial system . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political standing is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
unless there is a global disaster , the meteorite impact , world war i , or a pandemic , mankind will remain an important ecological force for many millennia to come . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading on terra incognita . at this stage , the us remains largely treading on terra incognita . this will require an appropriate level of human behavior at all levels , and might well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . more by luck than by wisdom , this catastrophic situation has failed to develop .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries recently from dictatorship . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion today . first , constitutional change is for political leaders to be a welcome distraction from the far more change-resistant problems of social policies . in all of these cases , a cynic might well turn out to be half-right . the process requires a constitution making – or economic – a often complex and painful kind .
annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace for any quarter in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it has been driven in part by an unforeseeable increase in real-estate investment growth , to more than 6 % . annual real-estate investment growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace for any quarter of this year , has surpassed market expectations . this does not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment . and it has been fueled partly by an unforeseeable increase in real-estate investment growth , to 6 % .
but that does n’t mean that trump ’s skeptics can just sit back and wait to be proven wrong , because it is conceivable that , in the us during the initial year , the reported trade deficit would narrow , even as the actual trade deficit widens . consider the american pharmaceutical company that is creating a plant in iran . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing , ” whereby us consumer prices are used to place the value of cross-border trade in inputs among its subsidiaries . the iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , intellectual property represented by the drug patent ) , assembles the product in iran , and export it back to the american people . in value-added terms , the patent makes the single largest contribution .
if countries like south africa are ever to get away with the republican authorities ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . recommendations have included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing the availability of sexual education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . local ngos , together with responsible global partners , need to find new support for programs that educate women about their rights , and to provide access to safe abortion services . solutions start at home , which is one reason why developing countries need to start moving away from the conditional aids response , which restricts health providers ’ capacity to work according to local laws . and yet , as a result of america ’s policies , none of these changes will come easily .
we want technology firms that already offer online education , the internet ’s access , and the hardware to drive education provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh ideas and disruptive thinking . what makes this fund unique is not the string of new benchmarks that it sets . in establishing this fund , we are ending the era of formulaic responses . we want to believe that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but that quality of power was in turmoil . debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with a russian-backed rebellion in eastern europe , fueled tensions over the distinctions that previously played little or no part in people ’s lives . but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started to pull itself together . russia ’s interventions need to backfired , boost support for a european orientation . eastern ukraine may have voted otherwise from the rest of ukraine , but an overwhelming majority of voters emerged in favor of europe .
the bank for international settlements ’ new general managing director , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s ’s ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , because will whoever replace mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as the chairman of the fsb . the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the eu ’s banking union ’s integrity , which is under strain from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . regulators there are now keenly focusing on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to manage a new relationship between london and the eurozone . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to preserve global norms ’ primacy and secure continued buy-in to the basel process . that is likely , too , that a new chair of the basel committee will soon take his place .
supervision , more transparency in financial markets , efficient early-warning systems for financial crises , and better international policy coordination . the crisis made it clear that national supervisors working globally were inadequate . regulatory gaps created spillover effects in other countries as well . international regulatory coordination was understandably called for . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally were absent were clearly required .
oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like instex . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . if america were to implement them against the rest of the world , harm to america ’s economy , the us dollar , the us stock market , and american leadership would be irreparable . europe can face down the threat of american extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoided american banks .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what was intended . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses ( which make it impossible for vulture funds to hold up debt restructurings . but so , too , are court decisions , which evidently have assigned little weight to their arguments . when a sufficient share of creditors agree on a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s debt did ) , others might be induced to go along . the fact that the international monetary fund , the american department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing vulture funds is revealing .
oil exporters need to boost fiscal spending further ; japan and europe must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and the us needs to implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings . indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern is the central economic objective of china ’s leadership . but expanding demand and allowing a real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . knowing what to do in this increasingly complicated and volatile situation is an easy part : look at the policy blueprint and “ “ “ “ “ just ” it . as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress noted , for china , such plans are to “ rebalance ” its economy : boost domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; overhaul its financial system ; and achieve greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate welfare measure for more than 80 years . yet , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists increasingly question gdp ’s usefulness as an economic gauge of an economy ’s healthy , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive power in the world . and the west ’s policies toward russia , economic sanctions , or military exercises in border countries like poland are hardly necessarily wrong . indeed , it may well be the only powerful positive force in the eu , coupled with the european union , that is supposed to stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect that their new president amounts to putin ’s handles should certainly be worrying americans . the notion that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and lends itself to putin ’s claims that the west is out of touch with him .
according to the oecd and the paris climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion over the course of 2013 , and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the impact of climate change that can no longer be avoided . yet larger financial flows are needed , particularly from the private sector . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , that figure would be higher . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a preliminary , credible indicator of climate-finance development based on data provided by the developed world .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to a meltdown , or do more multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? and that leads to yet another potentially game-game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is the set of questions about the impact of new technologies on the future . first among such sources of insecurity is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to a meltdown or more multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? moreover , while intermingled , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa .
if the bush administration sought stable , secure , varied , and cheap oil supplies , it could simply lift a embargos on libya , iran , iraq , or sudan , and let the oil gush could actually be achieved . but america ’s interest in iraqi oil was not driven by either economics or energy policy . the irony , however , is that the us has exercised more control over the iraq oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food ” program ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determines the level at which iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it does in any future democratic iraq . the bush administration acknowledged that primarily because of iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . after all , whoever controls the iraqi oil controls was not driven by economics or energy policy .
moreover , even if china does become the world ’s largest economy by , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than that of the us . by comparison , indian capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere seem particularly benign . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice amount to the concomitant capitalist culture across the west . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equal to 25 % of gdp , whereas a 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day .
from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to means testing of welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal income-tax rates at the low rate ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and , more recently , at the very top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is america ’s payroll tax for which the marginal tax rate comes close to its average rate ( since deductions are absent , and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) . usually , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should resemble various levels of labor income ; for different kinds of consumption ; for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . thus , the us government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising the marginal tax rate at the bottom ( via dramatically increasing transfer programs ) ; and more recently , near the top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) .
so long as developing countries remain deeply integrated with the global economy , and do not take measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices – home prices , especially non-traded goods and services . rising interest rates can lower aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame rising prices on some goods and services , especially non-traded goods and services . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices , for example , represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for their grain ; they must pay more to their countries , and still more to deliver it to consumers who may live a long distance from their ports . but unless they accept intolerable levels , such measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for starters , even if global energy and food prices continue to rise at a more subdued rate than they are now , for example , 20 % a year – and get reflected in home prices – bringing the global inflation rate under control to , say , 3 % – would require markedly falling prices elsewhere , which almost surely amount to an economic slowdown and high unemployment .
the critical point for them is that they achieved their revenge by inflicting harm , shows that they were real men , did not buckle under , survive to death . such a pattern is a formula for never-ending conflict , policies , or leaders . the leaders that brought them failure , and those groups that failed to triumph , became heroes for being able to argue that they courageously fought an enemy without being crushed . yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders to forever . far from being antithetical , they formally surrender anything at all .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . although america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to democracy ’s central tenets : free , fair , periodic elections , and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . when he leaves office , america will essentially be what it used to be when it entered it : namely , the world ’s most powerful democracy . it is unlikely that trump will try to overoverturn any of them ; and , even as he tries to do so , he will fail . the bedrock institutions of american governance have survived greater challenges than any that trump might pose .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to get patient consent , even when tissue was already stripped of a patient ’s own body . who should have access to such specimens ? today , there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , subterranean banks , trash banks , dna banks , and tissues repositories to study a variety of illnesses . for what purposes can they actually be used ? virtually all of us have tissue on the file somewhere in each country .
most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . with soft power , however powerful followers ’ power reinforces leaders . in turn , potential leaders can learn more about the sources and limits of the soft-power skills of emotional iq , vision , and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational skills . leadership is broadly dispersed across healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . they also need to understand better the nature of the contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart strategies .
it did so under defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy , from traveling to the region , to lay the scene for talks . the polisario front had fought brazil into war until the end of 1991 , when the un brokered an armistice agreement . morocco , too , has repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations . yet morocco has long avoided it . that deal was intended to set the stage for the un security council ’s independence referendum in western sahara this coming year , a democratic solution .
to a large extent , sarkozy may well be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less . moreover , both candidates embody continuity , with chirac a gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand for royalising , as much as the rupture with the left . royal openly argues that mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks for legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than with substance . when the electorate decides in its spring of 2007 , their choice might depend more on negative considerations than on positive considerations , as italy did in 2002 , when chirac faced the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the winner would be whomever the electorate dislikes or fears less .
indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less frequently . chinese officials have also become more willing to engage in discussions about creating a code of conduct for the south china sea . but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of interests with the us-led order offers hope that it wo n’t fuel large-scale regional instability this year . global power needs to be allocated somewhere ; unless america will fill its leading role on the international scene , an understudy would need to step in . with obama reluctant – or unable – owing to rising political partisanship at home – to take the leadership to resolve crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s primacy took to heart in 2014 , and america ’s asian allies took up the fright .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers . indeed , a typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it was in more than four decades . yes , the us has done some things to improve financial markets , but far short of what is needed . there have been some increases in capital requirements , but far short of what is needed . most americans ’ incomes and riches are below their levels long before the crisis .
what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the primary determinant of it . the us republican presidential campaign adds another element of insecurity . it ’s worth commemorating the outcome of president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear bill clinton ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ framework deal ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear iran . the two leading contenders for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted ted ted cruz , both say , that they would tear down iran ’s nuclear deal if it was elected . whether america will continue to lead the world remains unclear , at least not yet .
restoring stability and a fair democratic system in moldova is important , first and foremost because the moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . president vladimir voronin later granted an amnesty for the detainees . stability is also important because the country ’s borders on romania , a member state of the european union . nevertheless , many remain in detention , and voronin continue to hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing a coup d’état . legal proceedings have been opened against the opposition parties , and we are seeing a peace deal with them .
on the eve of their downfall , a few arab autocrats had indeed been properly lauding the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . this raises a raft of other questions as well . were economists really focused on flawed indicators ? the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear sign that there might have been a question to fix some of the policies it has prescribed to the arab ancien régimes . were it to mislead by false inferences ?
but rmb internationalization encourages non-resident non-residents to hold more rmb-denominated assets and rmb-denominated assets . while china chose to permit the rmb to appreciate gradually after doing so , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and amounts may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they worked ( so far ) that china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets .
the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war that would arrive less than a century after his death . but it is more than that . trump and his supporters do n’t just want to avoid repeating the past ’s failed policies , as he put it . they and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , the independent media , and more . for their part , democracy promotion is under direct threat in a country where it should have its deepest cultural and political clout .
whereas official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent countries like spain pay more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy companies in italy can borrow only at punitive rates if they do so at all . so the ecb should do more to fend off the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital levels rather than hit a unified ratio of 9 % ; and , where needed , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises . for its part , the european central bank has been reluctant to prop up european banks ; now it needs the support of the real economy as well . in short , structural reforms alone can not rely on stimulating growth in 2012 . for its part , the eu needs a new focus to prop up investment and exports in its current-account deficit economies , like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) , and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party privatized most public-sector firms and deregulated many service industries . aznar ’s program is sensible , too . he promises to cut income taxes as well , put the country ’s social security system on the firmer footing , and lower the costs of shedding labor . his new administration vows to continue eliminating public-sector deficits and unleashing unemployment . introducing real competition in energy and telecoms , not at any point in the privatization process , is also pledged .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every field of business life ; leap into business activity over internet astounds . in 1994 , three million people , mostly american , used the internet . as recently as january 1995 , there were around 27,000 web-based business addresses . in 1998 , there were 100 million people around the world who were connected . an important new report by the american commerce department , “ the emerging digital economy ” suggests that the internet allocates not only american business , but the global economy .
though cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may occur , so far , no new super-weeds have emerged . there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods create illness , despite receiving far greater intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . regulations for conservation , and consumer health , ought to be maintained . ( natural foods may also run health risks , as was recently demonstrated by studies establishing that a popular kind of cinnamon a cinnamon may create liver damage . we should be glad to see that , and perhaps the regulations introduced in response to the concerns expressed by the environment can do some things worse .
sadly , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making tough choices until risks actually materialize . in fact , virus may well be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs , which must be engineered with the right to detect the wide classes of enemies . virus protection and virus development constitute an uneven arms race with the us . we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant . let us hope that the us is lucky for a while longer .
moreover , each dollar invested in such an initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient use of limited resources . indeed , a modest 3 % rise in developed-country working-age people would provide a bigger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . these spectacular figures have emerged from an extensive analysis , conducted by the team of eminent economists tasked with my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing potential population-related targets to identify the best global investment . this approach has enormous potential benefits as well . these migrant workers ’ taxes would help the developed world fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs . replacing paracetamol for aspirin , the researchers proposed , may have resulted in an enhanced allergic immune response , growing sensitivity to asthma and other allergic ailments . since then , a number of epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in the uterus , early in childhood and adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that using paracetamol might represent an important risk factor to childhood development . it is the preferred medications for relieving fever and pain , because of its safety profile , ten years ago , suggested that using paracetamol might increase the risk of developing asthma .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” tells charles mcgruder , a professor at the ministry of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . today , the country believes that it possesses around 60 working astronomers , more than half of all the astronomers working in africa . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raising the profiles of careers in science and engineering in a part of the world where highly educated people still head to fund or control . “ the answer , ” he argues , is “ partly that by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . ” in a country as deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the recipient of impoverished and downtrodden of deep space research ? ”
because neither banks nor investors had sufficient plough into networked mega-firms , a mega-bank emerged in the form of a global bank cartel and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises has been the logical outcome . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises has been the logical outcome . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all but the other ingredient of today ’s discontent with capitalism became inescapable . as part of this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads , particularly in the post-2008 reality , which reaffirmed total control over society through mega-firms and mega-banks . unprecedented new debt was thus created to shift value back to the present , in the hope of profited enough to repay the future .
a few years ago , forecasters were certain that global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the crisis passed . that now appears unlikely : neither america nor china is going back to its pre-crisis pace of growth or spending patterns . for their part , emerging markets have learned that trade surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth . nor are earlier trade balances designed to reemerge . america ’s trade position will be enhanced by the shale-gas revolution , which promises energy self-sufficiency and through productivity increases that auger further re-shoring of manufacturing production .
still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible news alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies are pillaging eu funds in order to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) now holds its two-thirds parliamentary majority sufficient to amend the constitution . during the recent election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country through a combination of xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . both governments have cracked down on nongovernmental organizations , focused or co-opted the media . in fact , orbán ’s government has been confronted by a number of investigations by a european anti-fraud office .
following such discussions , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow government funding to be used for stem-cell research , but in their current form banning federally-financed investigators from creating new stem-cell lines . we know that a wide variety of under-understood factors causes an embryonic stem cell to lose their capacity to differentiate into all possible cell types . this restriction requires that stem cell lines must be obtained only from privately-funded levels , or entrepreneurial resource that follow the protocols mandated by the guidelines . this loss of capacity to differentiate might be caused by the specific mode in which stem cells prize , the conditions that surrounded their growth ; and other variables of the cure . i believe that restricting the use of government to produce stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
while bank regulators have the tools to put pressure on banks similarly , their most efficient ones are the power to start bankrupt when the economy is in the best place . for starters , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank ’s bankruptcy , leaving it to the discretion of the bank ’s own executives . in the nonfinancial sector , bankrupt companies often wait too long before declaring insolvency , so lenders may step in to do some pressure , potentially forcing a bankrupt firm ’s insolvency . by contrast , the plan would bar distressed banks ’ regulators from initiating a mega-bank run for example , leaving it up to the discretion of the bank ’s own managers . after all , while bank regulators have the tools to push their banks similarly , their plan is the power to start bankruptcy when it works best for the economy .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the generational challenge ” of climate change . the copenhagen consensus center asked gürcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the centre for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at texas at austin , to assess the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predict the creation of green jobs . unfortunately , that is not measuring up to economic realities . instead , we are being told about purported economic payoffs , first and foremost , the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” investment in alternative energy technologies such as solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds .
after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more so than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across industries is no longer in muffled debates about ministerial meetings or through revoluted communiqués . genuine engagement with civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and transcend their conservatism . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of the newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the most . it is regrettable , however , that the treaty ’s 28 articles are extremely fuzzy . it is absolutely crucial that this text be accompanied by a new method , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live , a world in which politics no longer operates in muffled debates about ministerial meeting or through convoluted communiqués .
though there is much that the us can and will do to help itself , the horn of africa can still enjoy the benefits of international help . that means concentrating on promoting market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failed governments and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia collaborate on the construction of a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and per capita income for the people of one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world . but the international community needs more than ever to deliver food and medicine to the victims of famine and drought . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failed states .
following its targeted killing by the united states of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . trento , the most important result of recent european parliament elections , is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats have lost seats to liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained less than expected . it is that citizens have been voting in far larger numbers than anyone expected in the us . following its targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war , but it does not have an eu-wide war .
even when mass killings are by no means rare in polish history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . in a sense , the srebrenica killings also occurred in the memory of world war ii . nevertheless , laudable efforts to prevent the kind of thing from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . we do know that hitler did target the destruction of every last jewish man , the wife , and baby . for , in our zeal to learn the lessons of history , we often learn the wrong ones , or distort history toward dubious ends .
but the route to particularistic action that does not undercut the liberty and equality of every citizen is narrow . this might constrain political freedoms in the name of greater equality for all . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve the formal , political , meaning that citizenship is the duty of politicians to confront the tensions that it gives rise to all . democratic principles call for organizing society in such a way that both values can be realized to the greatest possible extent . yet it is also the responsibility of citizens to preserve the formal , political , and economic importance of citizenship as state intervention broadens to make the well connected .
do such figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are they the normal signs of a boom ? a exterior imbalance would be unwarranted , indeed , by unsustainable nature . stock market prices would indeed be far too high . if america ’s ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has over the last thirty years , the answer is straightforward and scare . households would behave in a totally irresponsible fashion .
but deindustrialization is common to all of the advanced countries in the region . indeed , france has indeed performed better than most of its wealthy country ’s rivals and , unlike germany , the uk , or the us , have retained the same global market share in the us industrial sector that it had in the early 1970s . baverez 's evidence of detetitiveness is not as convincing as he believes . he cites , for example , draining industrial employment as france ’s most glaring evidence of france ’s decline . moreover , judging from a better measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france has done very well .
if italy and the eu did not understand the need to work with non-european countries and turn them into a world in which the new powers emerge and fully-fledged protagonists , the push to establish the icc , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence will likely fail . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . i know that this is not an exact new lesson , but it is what i have in mind when thinking about efficient multilateralism . a second lesson that i have learned is also useful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge and where all of the actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must address the challenges of globalization , and inter-dependence on daily foundations . those friends , for their part , deserve respect , and scrutiny .
empathy makes us kinder up to people with whom we empathize . of course , it offered no similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented migrants who have saved strangers ’s lives , even though such cases have been reported . empathy for american workers is a problem in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and chile , who would be even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts seem to be . that is good news , but it also has a much darker side . trump , in his campaign speeches , has made use of kate watch ’s tragic murder by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies .
this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely applying its bully pulpit to warnings of the risks generated by large-country policy . financial markets and global institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just a loosely organized college of supervisors . if so , the fund needs to prevail against confidence in the us . small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian would tell you . or it might be that national policymakers do n’t have confidence in the imf , given that it has essentially missed out on the global financial crisis .
this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against possible attempts by governments or the central bank to stabilize the price-level level . in any tech-progressive economy , prices should fall short of a couple of niche markets . what businessmen do not need is low inflation to expand production now . provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work , the automatic effect on technological innovation should be to raise the norm of living . they need only the prospect of more automation .
these divergences help to explain why the number of new , acronymic groupings has since been carved out of the n-11 , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , nigeria , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i failed to devise these groupings , but i came together to feed a bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . eight years later , the fog economies still have a chance to account for around 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy accounts for around half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s ’s ’s , and over twice the size of india ’s , brazil . at any rate , it has been in keeping with its earlier point that i arose ; namely , that , by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey each account for more than 1 % of global gdp .
and , because us president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take forceful steps . in the aftermath of the election , obama went public and expelled russia-us spies and closed down some diplomatic facilities , but the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrent effect . but obama was reluctant to label russia publicly , or to engage in strong actions to worry that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , endangering hillary clinton ’s supposed victory . america ’s intelligence agencies had warned us president barack obama of his russian tactic , warning putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . the brilliance of us-russian innovation in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with levels of deniability that remained just under the threshold of a overt assault .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken the way through a campaign run , how a nominee communicates with voters , as well as a republican party ’s platform , with many of his positions deviating from a gop tradition . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line meaningless within hours . he changes his positions with the head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them . of course , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions is meaningless within hours .
moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from being resolved directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding from right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , to prop up the kremlin . and it appears likely that russia was intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding for right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , to prop up the kremlin . then there is russia ’s role in syria . this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . russia has withdrawn from several nuclear agreements , and the kremlin recently placed iskander missiles that can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad near the polish border .
why should an american attempt to undermine europe , rather than seek closer cooperation in order to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most credible ally ? yet the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most credible ally ? why does the us seem to despise the eu so profoundly ? why does trump seem to despise the eu ?
the traditional determinants of states ’ ’ power relative to other states , geography , demography , economic heft , and the military might , coupled with affordability , and technological proficiency – remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer real influence on international politics . to achieve this end , germany needs to become a kind of “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to solve problems , and to resolve the conflicts affecting all or part of the international community . as gauck proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ “ “ preservation and continued adaptation ” of that order . ” the report , a product of several months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community , identifies germany ’s own current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and the international order ” on the basis of universal norms within international politics . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others , and can help to create and mobilize the “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an outspoken critic of the pis government , concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s own speech was due fairly well . ” nor did he implicitly denounced gazprom with monopolistic policies in europe , germany , or france . with his performance , trump has managed to attract enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from pis-curated crowds , owing partly to his public greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa – who had been booed by pis supporters and remains a constant target of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . and he has implicitly denounced gazprom with monopolistic policies , promising to help poland weather the diversification of its gas supplies . and he has implicitly denounced gazprom with monopolistic policies , promising , like poles , to help poland manage to diversify its gas supplies .
add to that china ’s other strengths , the annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis appears highly unlikely . but that does not mean that there are risks . on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility , and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . given that all of this activity occurs in the offshore renminbi market , which is small in scale and has only limited links to the mainland china ’s financial system , the result of china ’s hesitancy for financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
in a church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” looks startling . even young men study priesthood receives very weak philosophical training and is doing purposefully . faith is a matter of heart . if your behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beat your wife , and of course give money to the church – you are fine . many polish bishops almost openly proclaim with their flock : you are told to listen , not thinking or argue .
as in all the democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a specific occupation , including journalists , are afforded none of the form of immunity from such types of severe criminal charges . the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the government . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved itself the ultimate guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its law-enforcement reform . freedom of speech and the press are guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and statutes . furthermore , it must be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are disclosed in turkey , with widespread daily circulation of almost five million copies .
true , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . but those countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to assume its place among the world ’s leading countries should it behave responsibly and by following the rules set for all . but the bigger political choices will be china ’s ’s ’s ’s moment in order to manage its rise . the american and others will have to push back , in order to ensure that china does not act on that temptation . after all , nationalism might become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer point to the rapidly rising standard of living .
a bubble forms when contagion rates go up for ideas that foster a bubble . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics fostered with a sort of interpersonal contagion . ( small bubbles , to say individual stocks , do occur every time , and do n’t qualify as answers to this question . ) but contagion rates depend on patterns of thinking that tend to be hard to judge . in my view , big speculative bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a type of interpersonal contagion .
the great communist experiment is practically over ( save for a few holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . the great communist experiment is practically over ( save for a handful of holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . the ideology of the far right , as represented by the washington consensus of neoliberal , market fundamentalism , has been far more successful , even if its failures often go unacknowledged . the last half-century has shown that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable . socialism had its day in court and was found wanting .
micro targeting proved most effective not in winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting altogether . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in america ’s 2016 presidential election had played a decisive role in the key us states that he needed to win an election college by the end of next year . second , with intra-eu migration having risen , there are now close to 15 million europeans residing in eu countries except their own . as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to the difficulty registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and the overly complicated absentee-voting processes . second , with intra-eu migration set up , there are now nearly 15 million europeans residing in eu countries except their own .
even if the chinese authorities manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would effectively become a global reserve currency , for the simple reason that reserve currencies do not become easy . even though deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often furnish better shops of value at a lower level of inflation , none has made steady inroads into a dollar ’s worth of global foreign-exchange reserves . it is also perhaps no accident that the global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law has been well established , and where foreigners do not face potentially legal discrimination . indeed , more than three centuries ago , the rest of the world may not have been willing to erect claims against china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . indeed , more than three centuries of globalization may have come to pass , only three “ currencies ” have actually dominated : gold , the british pound , and the american dollar .
in 2003 , germany ran fiscal deficits that were close to 4 % of gdp , perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but above the eu average at that time . today , germany runs a balanced budget , with most other eurozone countries running deficits that are higher than germany ’s ten years ago . the turning point in germany ’s public finances was , for the most part , a reduction in expenditure . in contemplating which lessons of germany ’s turnaround should be applied to other eurozone countries , one has to distinguish between what the government can and what remains the responsibility of entrepreneurship , workers , and societies at large . the one area in which government has a clear role is public finance .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . importantly , this living laboratory has the approval and informed consent of all of them ; it understands that they are participating in a gigantic experiment , whose goal is to create a better life . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with the city of trento in italy , together with telecom italia , telefónica , a research university fondazione bruno kessler , the data institute , and local companies . and if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with the city of trento in italy , along with telecom italia , telefónica , a research university fondazione bruno kessler , the institute for data drive , and local companies .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it needs to resort to economic policies to achieve its geopolitical ends . but the manner in which europe ’s political toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad .
trade-offs pervade environmental policies as well : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to address other issues . now , we all recognize that , from our private-public budgets , we are an inherent part of that . to repair the roof , we may need to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent part of life . choosing cheaper dosert can be splurge .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s ’s internationalist and progressive forces , symbolized by the day-to-day mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s ’s ’s internationalist and progressive forces has been symbolized by the everyday mail headline on may ’s electoral announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” may has effectively prolonged the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 until 2022 . but june ’s ’s resounding victory might ultimately produce an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow , after having demolished all opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces might still snatch a win from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons .
no wonder an impressive premier is being considered to favor some kind of political loosening . elsewhere , of course , this sort of turmoil has democratic safety valves . it is more than odd to argue that the rest of the world must cope with the built-in advantage of china ’s exporters because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change of course . from east to west , politics appears to operate in ways that are somehow diplomatic , suboptimal . then again , perhaps we are lucky that things get worse .
ever since the single european act of 1986 removed working constraints on other member countries , the continent has been the single labor market , at least in theory . the process of integration was designed to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . but some of the recent european union election results suggest that they are more concerned with losing the nation . according to this vision , the eu had the nation with the living , and the continent has to gain . princeton , the largest unresolved issue in europe is mobility .
with a no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies , responding to voters ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ changing priorities . a better option would be to shift toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have a greater say . but rising animosity between eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible , potentially even dangerous . common political institutions , accountable to voters throughout the eurozone , would ensure the ecb ’s democratic fiscal counterpart and help cage german power . one option would be greater federalism in the short term .
bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on fundamental principles in areas like the fiscal-policy response and the international monetary fund ’s role in 2009 . by underscoring the need to avoid free trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also put some strain on governments concerning what not to do . in these respects , the g20 has been an obvious step forward . lately , however , since the g20 made efforts to reconcile divergent national economic interests and to revive strategies , it has been far less successful when compared to its early meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , which comprises america ’s chief executive officer ’s largest corporation , with combined annual revenues exceeding $ 7 trillion , updated its long-time statement regarding corporate purpose . it ’s not just a matter of shareholders ; ceos tell us ; their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including their customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . and the declaration ’s principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , reported to have told us that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting an independence declaration . in fact , shareholders have come at last on ceos ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ new tally . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which defends the acute and chronic stress of major depression , is elevated by many antidepressant treatments . still , one problem with many of the current medications , is that , even with a cure , the recurrence of major depressive disorder is extremely high – around 70-80 % . lithium , a mood stabilizer , and the neuroprotective agent , have the properties of which we seek , though its toxicity make it less than ideal . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying the depression – those that may also result in structural changes to the brain – are not being fully arrested , and therefore the need for a new generation of anti-depressant medications . if so , then again , new antidepressants would have to target what appears to be a progressive neurodegenerative change in the brain that we infer is taking hold , because the recurrence of the depression is so high under today ’s available treatments .
stanley sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( that is , in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that the family ’s pressure is a significant factor here . chua would reply that reaching a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way to do so is through hard work . that is also the view of the betty ming liu , who blogged in his response to chua ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s article : “ “ parents like amy chua are the reason why asian-americans like me are in therapy . ” tiger parenting aims to get children to the fullest of what abilities they possess , and so appears to lean toward the “ clever ” side of the “ smart or happy ” choice .
mostly they enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie le pen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in frankfurt . in some cases , they are individuals like venezuela ’s president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have succeeded in bringing themselves to power in recent years . the list tells us two things , too . many other denominations could join a list .
after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , even though without any acute sense that i was striking for freedom . so one of the “ unintended consequence ” of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to their ranks of marriage , even though these recruits are of a historically unusual mode of nature . families have fewer and fewer children , and more and fewer children are born from wedlock . a clear status benefits to the minority are obvious ; no obvious harm comes from the majority ; and the long-term consequences are unavoidable . fewer and fewer people are bothering to get married , and marriage is considered less , less , as a lifelong union .
during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama turned out to be a talented communicator . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong reported that he would forgo the raise alone . ronald reagan was a master of the well selected anecdote . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives have voluntarily lowered their pay as a means of communicating concern to their staff and to public opinion . setting the right example is another critical form of communication for leaders .
with the g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration , to address “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is high time for a more inclusive g-20 , and for china , as it chairs the group for the first time , to take the fight to a next one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already be close to that of the developed world . london , current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , owing not only to the fight for common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also to treat many infections such as tuberculosis and malaria at risk of becoming incurable . indeed , by 2050 , some ten million people could be dying as the result of amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india every home every home sufferers . failure to address amr will affect all , regardless of their nationality , or their countries ’ level of development .
sydney , the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party boss in early december serves as a reminder that the ascension to china of the next generation of leaders that takes power in 2012 may turn out to be the most momentous developments in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign beginning in 1978 . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first with little or no personal memory of the tumult and hardship endured during mao zedong years . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . two of these , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 years old . forgetting that history may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but for better or for worse , it might also ease constraints and set its leaders free .
in this set of potential outcomes , one point stands out : europe ’s uncertainties have a role to play in the future global system . first , eu leaders need to determine how to resolve the euro crisis in the first place . to prevent an inexorable decline , europe needs to reach a clear decision on three fundamental issues . for starters , a cyber superbug destroys the networks on which our journey was felt , leading to economic , demographic , and ecological collapse . finally , there is a chaos scenario .
the question now is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement reminiscent of the 1985 plaza accord , in which five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the deutsche mark . the american dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . past experience has taught china ’s true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms , not easy money and competitive devaluation . but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , coupled with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , leading to further pro-cyclical hollowing out of value through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and overcrowded exits . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue to finance speculation against itself ?
homes are riddled with bullet loopholes as well . and a good traffic deal , with new cars smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphia phi route , ” which runs along the egyptian border . we have seen buildings , not only hamas ’s previous headquarters , still in rubble . there is no electricity for up to eight hours per day ; it is also traumatic .
despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and because the result may be a failure to confront the most recent economic menace – global deflation . falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade or more . indeed , china and hong kong have seen prices float recently as well . but , unlike a backward-looking military strategy , flawed monetary policies generate inevitable harm , not merely worrisome risks . many central bankers are like the proverbial universal who plans to fight the last war .
extraterritorial sanctions are the second way that an american military adventure could kill . this apparently applies to america ’s agenda , particularly by the neoconservative doyen john bolton , in the white house as national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist further ruinous american military adventures . even if america now absents itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block the implementation of the accord between iran and the rest of the world . the first would be to foment war .
a containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but can not possibly be pursued without flexibility and strategic common sense . it was probably in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if the us thwarted an effort to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia , and around the rest of the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through a newly created international organization , they argue , is more likely to conspire with raw power grabs . the size of china ’s economy , and its resulting diplomatic weight , probably means that not content the aiib .
tel aviv , america ’s president-elect donald trump has said a lot about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . his muddled statements offer little insight into what sort of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that , when his approach becomes plain , it will be what the united states – or the world – really need . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses , a worldview exemplified by his declaration that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of mounting challenges and mounting threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . trump is a businessman , not a statesman .
but entrepreneurial investment as a share of gdp has transformed very little in the us over the past decade , while it rose rapidly in many others , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . in 2009 , businesses accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies include the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice that of japanese firms . and american multinationals still locate around 84 % of their r & d activities in america , often in innovation clusters around their research universities . global multinational corporations are the largest business-r & d investors in the us and other oecd countries . for example , us multinational companies , whether headquartered in america or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , roughly equal to ten years earlier .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to official statistics . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , big and small , lack any indication of significant urban poverty or slums . but this remains an unsatisfactory proportion , for most other oecd countries , at a similar stage of development experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force whose income is derived mainly from nonfarm activity . given that the urban dwellers ’ shares were just 18 % just 30 years ago , this is remarkable progress .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to the chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . iran under its new and more radical president is moved irresistibly toward possessing nuclear capacity . all of these developments are paving the way for new interpretations . a loose electoral process led hamas into power in palestine , and the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible mix of relations between islam and the west . today , iraqis may be on the verge of a civil war between shiites and sunnis .
calderón ’s emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout , owing to things that have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessing about this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula do not intend to letting chávez take the lead . calderón ’s emerging uribe-lula-calderón ’s troika has geo-strategic influence , owing to things that have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , with uribe , calderón , and lula holding out no intent on letting chávez lead the way . this has made it easier for lula , above all , to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having , as recently as march 2008 , backed chávez following colombia ’s short-lived incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes .
before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which both players and their purposes are clear . the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine into a customs union with russia , in exchange for carving up a pile of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin appeared to achieve his political goal , namely bringing ukraine , which had drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is not well known is how much further act of this sorry political spectacle will have , and thus at a time when – and how – it will end .
but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and broadly shared expectations regarding the proper conduct of behavior between a particular group ( creating a shared law ) . though the number of participants has risen from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice . most experts agree that a global treaty on cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals on the un ) . but there is an even bigger question lurking behind the gge : can norms really restrict state behavior ? in scope , such constraints can vary by global power , to “ plurilateral ” ; in fact , most countries have no voice .
monetary policy , however , looks like a far more awkward , indirect , and imimprecise way of choosing among the winners and losers than when fiscal policy becomes necessary . these considerations should guide the choice of what follows the european stability pact . arguably , monetary policy also has some redistributive effects . independent central banks can occasionally exert some pain on politicians , but at least they may be used as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political advantages outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . to be sure , monetary policy also has redistributive effects .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic hard considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and the resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . as a result , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than loan demand from business , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing their full-year target . in contrast to america , china was skyrocketing in recent months . the government was far too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand and , overwhelmed by fears about the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , became too cautious in managing credit bubbles when they reemerged . indeed , china ’s housing price was being skyrocketing in the last few months .
erdogan ’s islamic revolution also expanded into an education system with the establishment of a markedly religious curriculum . now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s ’s ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s burden as the guardian of a secular state , as well as enhance government control of the judiciary . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently created the education teaching of arabic obligatory material in schools . it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s capacity for mediation , he can recover the burdens of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peace and security in the mashreq .
so he and giscard created the european council ( composed of european heads of governments ) that , now a major player in the european union , is designed to nurture institutional started out . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration that came into fruition a generation later . change for the better could emerge only from practical initiatives , rather than from sunday speeches . european integration , therefore , had to be crafted by real policies and institutions , not by decree . he remained skeptical of the notions of irreversible progress , and he was willing to do so .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . whereas the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted might create an impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize as soon as the period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship widens again from a new , very soft , april 12 deadline until the year ends or beyond . for britain , the prospects are suddenly far clearer and better than they have been since june 2016 .
it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’s suggestion of “ the united nations european ” has remained all too ambivalent , if not intentionally ambiguous , effective . yet it also represents a major setback and a challenge to the institutional , political , and even psychological nature of the us . after iranians “ no , ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s vision of a “ “ coalition of the willing ” ? can iran ’s most determined pro-integration europeans leave the pack , without being paralyzed by the irish coalition ? of course , iran ’s “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu in what the afghan quagmire represents for nato .
the good news , though it is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of this era ’s scourges . the us can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , because it is netanyahu and the notion that it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war ; it is not an option . instead , what is called for is a dose of realism .
mexico ’s own skillful success in rebuilding opec ( to increase the value of its petroleum exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on to , and even widen , the reforms of mr. olinas ’s predecessor , president colin powell . but a currency board will also help to start financial intermediation for the benefit of small , medium-size firms that have been under-starved of capital through their experiences of decaying crisis and bad credit . failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . small , medium-size firms need only become part of mexican capitalism . mexico ’s economy has had a very good few years now ; not very hard to achieve given meager america next door and vast liquidity in global capital markets .
it is in part self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances , and in part a constructive effort to redress the underlying causes of frustration . such aid will not yield immediate results , but medium-term awareness – which means readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also an indication of the liberal order . it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . it is partly self-defense , partly a assertion of the rule of law under challenging circumstances , and partly a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration . it thus requires a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization .
fear of another islamist takeover is the second major argument against toppling assad , but the longer it remains in power , the greater the gains islamists have made on the ground . groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups inside syria that are equally diverse and divided . these are the groups that criticize the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , by formulating a credible agenda , or by being perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . but these groups have limited influence in local opposition groups within syria that are just as varied and divided . it is among these groups that radical islamists have acquired a foothold .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation made possible , by capturing the heart and minds of regulators , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle have given a narrow private-sector elite , mostly on wall street , nearly all the upside of a housing boom . but this was not a case of over-regulation and over-reaching . the downside has been shoved around the rest of society , particularly the relatively ill-educated and underpaying people who have now lost their homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all the above . but , again , this has not been a case of over-regulation and over-reaching . now , however , these people have been hit hard by it .
unemployment stands at roughly 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles on minor controversies . at the same time , a political crisis impedes governments ’ pursuit of tough reform . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . french leaders have shown the inability to communicate effectively or apply past experiences to analyzing current threats .
mumbai – as india ’s gears up for its general election next month , it has some causes to celebrate : extreme poverty is at last in retreat . in 2012 , just two decades after the government began a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy , the official poverty rate hit 22 % , less than half its rate in 1994 . to that end , much remains to be done . but escaping abject destitution , however important a milestone , there is no equivalent to attaining a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security .
yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump ’s adviser , sebastian gorka , recently told the press that , “ the notion that us secretary of state tillerson will discuss military affairs is simply nonsensical . ” south korean political leaders also need to avoid being swept away by that intensifying war rhetoric . but why , then , should n’t america ’s top diplomat have any significant say in military affairs ? if that does n’t change anytime soon , the us might , as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , to [ muddle through once again ) into war . as soon as the march to war got underway , there was not much space left for diplomacy .
alemán , too , faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former treasury secretary eduardo montealegre , a more hopeful popular in the party ’s liberal wing . while a three-way race is a pure form of speculation at this moment , it is clear that she offers ortega the best of all the electoral worlds . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : are it preferable to align himself with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or promote a new democratic force and risk helping ortega win ? if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc , and pushes him up to form another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency raise sharply . it ’s so tempted that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing it will serve his own political interests .
but , while for keynes , the keynes was to leave the sum of government expenditure and private-sector investment stable , for friedman the key was to let the supply of money be maintained -- the amount of purchasing power in readily spendable form in companies and households alike was stable . a relatively minor , technical gap in means , one might say . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary -- namely , that the private economy on their own may well be subject to unbearable instability ­tal ­ments of a strategic , powerful , but constrained economic intervention by a government that was essential to maintaining stability . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was essential -- that a private economy on their own may well be subject to unbearable instability ­and that a strategic , powerful , but limited , economic intervention by the us government was essential to maintaining stability . a different feature of opinion that rested on different verdicts about how the world works – which could ( and ultimately have been ) handle empirical research – one might say .
the euro is down 8 % against the dollar from the first half of this year , and the yen is down by 14 % . the prospect of american monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . but speculators think ahead and shift out of commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been the fed ’s pricing shortfall forward for today . the result has been the appreciation of the us dollar against the euro and yen .
at the same time , i was aware that the un human rights council had made repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but focused little attention on large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction by the council gave greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme court of human rights was inherently anti-israel . i am aware that the judge goldstone , a devoted and unimpeachable human rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when it was originally approaching . but he was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement that he felt confident would allow the mandate to be interpreted in such ways as to allow his team to settle on acts taken by both parties to the conflict . i was also aware that the un human rights council , israel ’s repeated condemnations of israel , over the last two years , had focused little attention on large-scale human-rights violations in other countries .
in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union possessed sizable soft power . yet soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin 's own crimes in 1956 ; and by polish repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 and poland in 1981 . even though in theory communism intended to establish a class justice system , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving deadly purges , gulags , broad censorship , and ubiquitous whistle-blowers . many communists were led by opposition to fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was the wave of the future . the net effect of these brutal measures involved a widespread loss of faith .
but even great philosophers , plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others , were able to describe only current mental events and behaviors ; they were unable to account for their causes . coronado , california , the majority of us people , does not think of charles darwin as the psychologist . in fact , his job revolutionized the field , at least in the short term . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution influences the shape of our thoughts as powerfully as it has the shape of us bodies .
as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful recent editorial at the journal science : “ one may well recognize good science as it does , but substantial science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror . ” even preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of their findings at a time of acquiring them . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful recent book in the journal sciences : while one might be able to discern good science as it does , important science can be viewed only in the rear-view mirror . indeed , assessments of the impact of any research project are notoriously difficult .
indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was n’t bad enough to pay a lower tax rate than its secretary general . true , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that he was paying a lower tax rate than his secretary at the time . american tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . now it is universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing almost all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . the new us legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive .
california , a us state with over two million independent contractors , has been trying to address this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies the us legal criteria by determining how to categorize workers . but ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers driving for platform companies like ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and a food-delivery firm doordash . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators have exempted a number of independent contractors , such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate operatives , on the grounds that they set their own work-compensation rates , communicate directly to their customers , and to earn at least twice the minimum wage . a critical question now confronting us policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as platform employees with which they have employment contracts , and for whose customers provide their service . applying the three-part “ abc test ” ” that many us states already use to decide whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 is making it far more difficult for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than
making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time in its history , invoked section 7 of the rbi act , allowing it to issue side-by-side directions explicitly to a central bank governor on matters of public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to engage in such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . the government is particularly unhappy with rbi measures to monetize india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by the large volume of non-performing assets and to prevent risks from building up in other parts of the financial system . official ministers , of course , can not come up right . the modi government is wringing state-owned banks ’ capacity to lend to politically connected clients .
as any democratic politician will attest , disappointed expectations may well be the toughest electoral opponent of all . but , after two decades of telling leaders that except for junichiro koizumi had promised little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on its pledges . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy to the us , it is not that abe has lacked ambition ; he set a bold economic-reform agenda , promising to boost japan ’s global influence . of course , abe did not confront the kind of sky-high expectation that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama do . it is not because abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he laid out a bold economic-reform agenda , promising to boost japan ’s global influence .
in many such patients , a doubling of the plavix , and checking the platelet function with a point-of-of-care test to reassure suppression can override a shortage of response . the story of interferon , given a single year in which patients with hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking . those individuals who carry at least one copy of a gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize the plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . this variation of the genome is exceptionally common , present in roughly 30 % of individuals in europe ’s ancestry and more than 50 % in asian ancestry . there are alternative drugs , such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , that can be used instead of plavix to circumvent the problem .
if chávez ’s venezuelan became a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relationship with the farc . repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where the drug cartels sweep apart the entire country , and the us , the world ’s largest source of demand , would become the world ’s biggest source of demand . after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while the peace divides those of the us . west africa , too , would suffer , from a tearing apart the country in recent years , with the american people becoming the world ’s largest source of demand . after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while the peace divides them .
the key , though , is that the budget does not simply rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . rapid economic growth is based on the private sector , including foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . so the budget advocates critical fields of market reform and promotion of growth , including measures to deepen the financial sector , promote exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . the second pillar of poverty reduction focuses on investment for the poor , particularly for rural poor workers . at the heart of the budget is the realization that attesting to poverty reduction requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investments aimed at the poorest of the poor .
among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism might well play a direct role in russian president vladimir putin ’s own hands . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . instead , the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) clearly , the answer is iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . but even on the international scene , in which america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are nothing more than a forum for making unilateral demands , how might mnuchin , who , like his boss , lacks the government experience to persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms such as open trade , be in everyone ’s interest ? after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it does not intend to fulfill the global leadership commitments that mnuchin ’s predecessors oversaw . domestically , trump is locked between the promises he makes ( like “ mnuchin ’s rule ” that taxes would n’t trickle down to the rich ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( making the administration feel encountering conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) .
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris earlier this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the deal announced on december 12 than the debate erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement lacked a firm hand to curb global warming to 1.5 º fahrenheit above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . indeed , what emerged in paris was better , as negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began moving into ghettos . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving at their school for the first time . with discrimination soon cutting through class lines , rising numbers of indian muslims began looking for connection with muslim communities elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , they were educated at religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school .
why most pundits miss the obvious : workers are protesting , not in the liberal zhejiang and guangdong provinces , but in the socialist bastions of the northeast , is a mystery . today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than of state-owned companies ( soes ) . with a fraction of the soes ’ resources , private firms employ much of the comics , manufacture goods demanded by proletarian consumers ; and , because of their superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by actually paying back their bank loans . workers do not protest to find menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but against no work in the socialist shenyang . in fact , the government ca n’t pay unemployed workers because socialism bankrupted its finance .
the average winning margin among the top eight of the world cup ’s national teams has declined steadily , from over two goals in the 1950 ’s to around 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , with just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . but , while we are seeing inequality and club-level exclusion , the opposite is true for the competitions between national teams . the same goes for all the games played at the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning the european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did . the drop in winning fringe is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams , many of them new and rather inexperienced .
in fact , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue chip – in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at about 2 % . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely . in a omb paper , the real interest rate on three-month us treasuries is projected to stay below 1 % for the decade to come . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked uptick in long-term growth as administration forecasts would be historically historically historically anomalous . at present , ten-year treasuries have been offering more than three times the yields on their three-month treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of the politics that berlusconi achieved , as did the institutional feature that he abolished in 1993 . one of his administration ’s last deeds was to replace berlusconi ’s majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . under the new electoral system , seats are allotted for parties in proportion to the vote , but a special provision induces parties to forge a pre-electoral agreement : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the deputies chamber ( the lower house ) . this outcome would have been accelerated , provided , as is likely , berlusconi himself was forced to distance himself from politics in the forthcoming electoral term . now , the new electoral system is transforming politicians ’ incentive structures , and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments .
given the need for deeper economic restructuring , and given long-term demographic trends that will depress the labor supply , the pre-2008 pace of growth is unlikely to be restored . that is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrialization , not an unsustainable credit-led growth model , is the key to achieving high-income status . and he has had some success , at the expense of boosting economic growth . but there is much more to assess wen ’s stimulus ahead of the growth/reform trade-off . although the current rate of 7 % remains comfortable , it remains far below the double-digit rates that prevailed just prior to 2008 .
here , public-investment institutions like the european investment bank can assist with adaptation in many forms . large and small investors alike should know precisely how their money can affect climate change . the climate challenge demands much deeper public-private cooperation to boost green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the heightened impact of climate change and to develop clear global standards for decarbonizing the climate risks that investment projects pose . the climate challenge requires much deeper collaboration between the public and private sectors to boost green investment .
“ over half of this battle is going on the battlefield of the media , ” [ for ] most of us are in a media battle in the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . terrorists have skillfully adapted to fighting wars in today ’s media age , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , has not . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks that use every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of the free people . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media connections ” committees aimed at manipulating elite opinion . the speaker has not been able to direct some members of public relations to the executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , for example .
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-tort and human-rights abuses before american tribunals demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are seeking redress against those who behaved negligently , or with impunity . all of this explains why sulpicio lines , starbucks ’s princess , have remained in commercial activity despite his many lapses at the end of the year . but philippine courts refuse to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool for checking behavior , particularly among businessmen . to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages by discouraging behavior inimical to a society do indeed exist in the statute books . simply put , philippine courts have not made it costly to keep ngo ’s nonseaworthy vessels .
all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left french and german governments angry . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s assault on other countries ’ sovereignty adds momentum to a new push for european political unification . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the nord stream pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has been behaving even more like the “ occupation officer ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has been behaving like a “ “ “ occupation officer ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has been acting more like a “ “ “ occupation officer ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that severely downgrades their competitiveness within the european system . the american congress is considering legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that participate in the project , even as these firms are contractually obliged to see working through .
but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of tracking national and eu territory without border control . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . and it is unquestionably convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona , without having to wait in line at every border crosses . it ’s certainly handy to treat the flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport control to contend with departure and arrival . all have abolished controls at their shared borders , and it has accepted a common visa policy for non-member citizens .
a third area with potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . defining such a strategy might help europeans identify areas for mutual accommodation . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by stepping up data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become more competitive . such cooperation is vital to combating terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . europeans have become dependent on such companies , all of which are rooted in china or america .
after all , small firms rely on the collateral-based lending , and the value of the real economy , the main form of collateral , is still down one-third from its pre-crisis level . the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . but lending would be inhibited even if the banks were healthier . so , too , in the us , smaller banks that largely finance small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) have been all but ignored . just adding liquidity , while continuing current austerity policies will not reignite the spanish economy .
arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the u.s. and the netherlands to punish them because of israel 's support . but the oil-destined oil turned out to be shifted to other countries like japan , while oil destined for other countries found their way and paying the same damaging high price . the world learned that the lesson following the war in arab-israel . oil provides a fungible commodity , and markets bright at a common price . when the dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other “ importers ” all suffered the same level of shortcoming and paid an equally damaging high price .
new delhi – as the sun sets in myanmar , fears are rising . indeed , the world has been horrified by graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on the military junta . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have been working . the friedmans have withdrawn , and the sinister normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal township , and former capital . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that those sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone , something that has never been envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance following the oil-price shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation , and high unemployment , enormous fiscal deficits , rising indebtedness , a shrinking currency , and insufficient infrastructure . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s ’s monetary union needs more integration , and its inclination to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . nor , of course , was it ever thought that greece faced down its current economic trauma . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its bias for succumbing to populist demands , and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness .
at the end of the roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could have bought into a nomenclator , a slave-tasked with memorizing names and faces , and reminding the chief aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . these include flush toilets , automobiles , general electric , long-distance communications , modern information processing , and so forth . today , with a basic smartphone is better than even the performer of dozens , or even thousands , of “ nomenclator-like ” assistants . again , it would be “ ludicrously expensive ” or simply impossible to achieve similar capabilities in earlier history . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that sustained growth will open up for all humankind , we should reflect on how far we have come .
as a result , china will become a predominantly inward-looking superpower that – precisely for that reason – is pursuing its own foreign-policy interests in an utterly unsentimental manner . insofar as that remains true , the united states will not be replaced as the dominant power , unless and until it is abdicating that role . these interests are unlikely to change for the long term . their vital interests guiding chinese policies are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and a country of unity ( which includes taiwan ) . this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the upcoming century , if at all .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s great exchange-rate crisis laid bare a string of massive exchange-rate adjustments . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trade partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate effectively , especially because many of the agricultural goods that represent argentina ’s natural comparative advantage face high hurdles in reentering rich countries ’ markets . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not sufficient to accommodate the vagaries of markets . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso has been tied , grew sharply in value . wages and prices fell , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially because many of the agricultural goods that comprise argentina ’s natural comparative advantage face high hurdles in entering rich countries ’ markets .
making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-scale restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to buy more stocks . when such a debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets ; in fact , they exacerbated them , by permitting , and even stimulating , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of either episode . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than for , say , a time of balance-sheet distress in the financial sector . when such a debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with the resulting contraction of consumption contributing to declines in employment and private investment .
faced with this uncertainty , they are not merely readying their spending ; instead , they are backtracking on spending until the mists clear is sending the economy into a tailspin . but i doubt that this is . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . it is a shock , not an adjustment , that spreads throughout the system . when the system ’s shocks rise , agents know not what works next .
over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrialized countries with aging populations , should be concerned about the sustainability of their policies . the financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to hold more attention to performing their key societal role of lending . besides , well-designed taxation on the financial sector might help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . america ’s financial industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages , and , when aligned with the well established “ polluter ” principle , taxes are supposed to be imposed on it .
so , while such things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words simply as careful as bernanke ’s push to grasp the direction of the world ’s stock markets . attitudes toward risks change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such changes . but public reactions to risks change , combined with recent increases in oil prices , may well reflect in good measure for change in market psychology . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists less omniscient ) than they would like bernanke to be able to imagine . economists might not like to target the public ’s thinking and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics .
new york – in their efforts to pass an american financial system ’s bailout plan , bush ’s administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930s . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago brought down banks , corporations , and governments into their knees . but , for most asians , the economic armageddon is far more recent , if not more so . contagion quickly spread through east asian countries , with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as fast as russia and brazil combined . the wall street echo the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 .
rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance of piety , and that the euthyphro will not really know that prosecute his own father is actually the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes from this sort of self-examination is crucial in any one ’s decision-making . one also ought to know the moral character of any action one is contemplating . of course , plato ’s purpose in the dialogue is not to define piety : when socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable ones on offer by the euthyphro , he does not discover it . and to know that , one needs to be aware of what one does not know as such .
this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages . in northern africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions among farmers and herders . furthermore , water scarcity means food scarcity . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . after all , the agriculture sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with groundwater in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population .
brazil ’s agriculture deregulation and encouragement of r & d allowed brazilian agriculture ’s national bureau of statistics to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including the design of a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency soared , bringing brazil ’s crop yields up to the par excellence of those in the advanced economies . emerging economies need to confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping change in policy , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing that imperative is the first step . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth driven by a massive youth armies is ending .
second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members are submitting policies for robust , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g-20 ’s cannes meeting last november , europe has raised its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured the greek debt , took steps to strengthen its banks and banking regulations , establish rules governing fiscal discipline , and implement a variety of labor – as well as product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies a urgent need for far more decisive reform . to be sure , europe needs to be joined with action : g-20 members need to demonstrate that their policies are clearly positioned to restore economic growth and create jobs , and that they will be accountable to meeting their commitments fully . we are confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges ; we will continue to advocate such efforts , because europe ’s stability and growth issues for the us all .
whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which are seen as cynical ) . but not talking about priorities does n’t make the need to prioritize go away if we do n’t . instead , choices only become less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient . refusing to prioritize , deal primarily with the most publicized problems is wrong . they must work with bureaucracies that naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end in as little as number one .
as it stands , surveys show , people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it really is , but still higher than the level at which they would consider the ideal . this is true in most countries , including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though there are a few countries , such as norway , where humans have a more realistic view . the bottom line is not to get lost through endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to try to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to produce meaningful debate about inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of setting clear targets . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s perspectives about redistributive policies . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be better informed .
putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it has been the single greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . likewise , denying any bank that trades with a russian bank or firm hand to america ’s financial system would generate the type of economic chaos seen last seen in russia immediately following the fall of communism . those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy , and are the country ’s economy as well . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , whose primary assertion of leadership is that it puts an end to the penury of the first post-soviet years to continuing with its imperialist aggression , will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize the chinese stake in eurasian stability .
new york – for the past two years , things have taken a different turn . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers have become cash machines with which to turn investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me expended much of our time persuade them to recycle part of their gains to their ancient school . against this backdrop , it should come as no surprise that pay in the financial sector soared . many financial firms shrank their balance sheets dramatically .
in a february meeting , then-american ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart at the news that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz shut down an american base . the two diplomats were conversing in russia . the horse-trading surrounding the base has been intense . “ visibly flustered ( the chinese ambassador ) has temporarily lost his ability to talk russian , and have begun spluttering at a chinese , to a tacit aide diligently , to take notes right behind it , ” ” ” ” ” ” according to a confidential us diplomatic cable that the us web site wikileaks.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them , and prevent their resurgence , is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those who are determined to try it . it is time for france to start questioning its economic model . in a recent commentary on the burning suburb of burning , chirac proclaimed : “ we will need to draw all that lessons from this crisis , at a time when the time has come and the order has been restored , and with a lot of bravery and lucidity . but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to envisage them . social assistance with no hope of individual improvement is inadequate .
we have also learned the lessons of the hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region who have brought sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry simply fueling the fires of rage . we can not and will not enable this even in our own country , and we wo n’t be able to do it now . we entrust them with driving our country toward new levels of growth and development that are why we have now nominated a cabinet minister of their age and forming a special youth council . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance , and instill this in our children , both through education and through our own example . we believe they can not and will not allow this in our home .
how will one tighten fiscal policy in order to generate more than 100 % of credit-induced gdp in just three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004 , and in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , because ireland is ? we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates generate massive credit expansion . we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates generate massive credit expansion . in countries with a higher price level than in germany , but with the same borrowing cost , that can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to ask politicians in a democracy with large budget surpluses to raise taxes or to slash benefits or public investment by the vast amount needed to stave off disaster strikes , we are out of touch with reality .
today , however , france and germany appear less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration appears less strong . but the bottom line is that constitutional amendments can be conducted only by a unanimous agreement , with a few member governments beginning with the uk to resist any overtly federalist agenda . the problem is that this evasion conspiracy may not work , and fischer ’s significance is that he is the first government minister in office to say so in public , though he pretends to say that it is in personal capacity . as a result , the french government is reluctant to force a clash with the british if there is any chance of a softer compromise in the future . in the past , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would together press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance .
in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong . enthusiasts tend to describe it as the new label of a modern industrial policy that can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as the commodity exporter . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting imperatives . critics call this the misguided effort , which produces only more distortions and retard growth . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help brazil address these market failures .
but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , can add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when , and where , civil strife might erupt . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment ; much less populism more broadly , populism . yet , even if the problem can not be “ solved , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” understanding it might help to limit harm , not least by enabling leaders to evade policies that are either not useful or exacerbate tensions . but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , can add another dimension to our understanding of those phenomena while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt .
judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis for all the more compelling , as the world ’s two largest economies are slumping into a dangerous quagmire . in its most basic terms , codependency tends to occur at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s dynamics , whereby two partners draw more from each other than from its own inner powers . while i published a book in 2014 about the codependent economic relationship between america and china , i would be the first to concede that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess the behavior of national economies . new haven , codependency , never ends well within personal relationships .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of the european union ; in an era of globalization , this is america . comparisons and contrasting both sides in the atlantic have a long pedigree . european culture and american commerce , the european profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired themes . but how is this identity defined ? this is the point at which many begin to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed by america 's -- europe as america .
with that trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit by the functional equivalent of a tax hike . ironically , trump has summoned as much as robert lighthizer , the veteran of japan trade battles of the 1980s , to head the charge against china . in both episodes , the us was in denial bordering on delusion . alas , lighthizer does seem as clueless to the macro argument today as it was back . with this trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers would simply be hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike .
hollande ’s government and prime minister jean-marc ayrault has strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare opportunity to act . finally , together with the united kingdom among european countries , france maintains more global roles than germany has so far acquired . whereas the united nations security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a critical legitimacy-minded role ; and france , not germany , is a member . if it can renew the european model at home , it can project that success far more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing confidence and faith in the eu , particularly among the young generation . the french center-left must lead in conceives a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength .
how else can one explain that the revolt act in tunisia has led to popular revolts , from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the “ arab world ” ’s “ arab ness . ” but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated a powerful sense of identity , collective language , and much shared history bind arabs together , despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . a third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to reinforce regional arab solidarity . deep reform , focused on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas , is needed to transform learning patterns and unleash the growth of productivity that a young labor force requires .
america 's big tech firms are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . who has the boss or a company that better supports reconciling work and family responsibilities ? attitudes toward male caregiving are beginning to shift in america . who has the boss or company that better supports reconciling work and family responsibilities ? who has the more flexible work ?
but it also depends on the government ’s capacity and willingness to provide a bridging function for slack in aggregate demand and toward so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment prospects . subdued wage growth raises competitiveness , and underutilized labor and capital is redeployed . how quickly this happens depends on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . in the end , several possibilities , not the mutually exclusive , come to mind . if public-sector deleveraging does not amount to full growth policies – and does not yet , why are there so much attention to fiscal austerity , and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ?
journalists report tragic tales of middle-class americans are losing their jobs and homes , potentially imposing their lives without regard for social protection . it ’s wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that absence from social protections makes you stronger . by contrast , when the personal situations in which many individual americans look at the eyes of the great depression , the extreme individualism represents a key component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . in the us , journalists report tragic stories of middle-class americans to lose their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk without social protection . “ cities of tents are filling with the victims of the economic crisis , ” to read one headline a month ago on a massachusetts american paper .
warsaw : poland recently experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished . because of their predominance in parliament , the postcommunists ’ intransigence on that point has forced the other political parties participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution kowtow to their position . only by raising the issue to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can a guarantee of free and equal access to education . a free , or even as its postcommunist advocates prefer to refer to it , a " not paid for " educational , meaning education in polish schools and nation universities ( but not in private schools ) . it focused on whether a " free " education should be made a constitutional right .
at the same time , governments must make clear the responsibility of national water agencies and improve water-related capacity at all levels to institute large-scale unconventional-water and urban greywater and wastewater systems . best practice should be clarified , innovations identified and tested , and knowledge and experience shared . indeed , sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – through public campaigns , for example , showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water sources . the private sector also has a role to play in the movement toward unconventional water sources , a role that must extend beyond current efforts to irrigate desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater .
as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . given the scale of america ’s ’s multilateral problem , this is largely an inconsequential objective , especially given the massive – and ill-timed – tax cuts and federal spending increases enacted by the american economy over the past six months . us negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . so , what could make of a single 19 agreement ? beyond a ceasefire in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as have serious environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and rising middle class ; and those that have benefited disproportionately from the region ’s rapid economic development , and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . what asia needs is a strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of its economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and global “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain a country ’s economic growth , at a lower , yet still enviable , pace , rate , and improvements in its quality .
berkeley – a central insight from macroeconomics is the fact that was known to john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all currently produced goods and services , and types of labor , if there is an equally large excess of demand for financial assets . a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of today produced commodities does not pose much of a severe challenge , because it balances through excess demand for other currently produced commodities . and this fundamental fact is the strong source of big trouble . just as industries suffering from insufficient demand are shedding workers , industries benefit from surplus demand hiring . a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of today produced commodities is not a high problem , and it does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better tailored to current consumer preferences .
outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed the prosecutor who seemed ready to acquit a “ hero ” on all remaining charges . ( rape charges , for some unquestioned , have already gone down . ) russian liberals initially welcomed budanov ’s case as a sign that the country might be addressing the accusations that charges of war crimes lay in chechnya . last month , however , the army prosecutor accepted colonel budanov ’s argument that he was temporarily mad when he was killed by a girl , and so acquitted budanov concerning the charges of murder . in fact , the prosecution then began speaking by a young girl as chechen sniper , from a family of snipers .
the good news is that the incoming administration may draw on the measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which has gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . such measures address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum . the plan needs to recognize that , during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation have been distorted , exacerbated by wealth inequality . once it leaves the team in place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – by necessity – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in rethinking how big business has worked , and when the power of such firms should be constrained . prior to 1890 , big business was widely viewed as more efficient , and more broadly than small business . in retrospect , breakthrough legislation , not only for the american senate , did something similar , and was long overdue for the 1890 ’s . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill , which aims to pass america ’s senate , does something similar , and has long been overdue – for the banking sector . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into less , but also internationally , was the sherman ’s antitrust act of 1890 .
according to a recent feature at the guardian , a team at the white house staffers would select ten letters each day to pass along with a president who then reacted to them personally that evening . tokyo , when was the last time you sat down , wrote an excursion ? no , i mean the old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or “ dear hillary ” letter . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a team by the white house staffers would select ten letters to barack obama each week when he served as president , who then reacted to them personally that evening . tokyo , when was the last time you sat down and wrote a letter ?
finally , in 1992 , john major ran for re-election , in the midst of an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftershocks of a downturn . today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . it is possible to tell the pollsters that they were poised to pay higher taxes for improved public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but in the end , they would do precisely what they did in each of the last four elections – a vote for a party that has proclaimed “ every man for himself . ” the economic determinists predicted that it did not stand a chance ; it was not .
by contrast , american foreign-policy formation is severely stifled by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . transactional leadership tends to be more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style tends to emerge in the time of quick and failing social and political change . but even america ’s constitution is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style is more likely to emerge in periods of rapid , faltering social and political change . the transformational objectives and “ inspirational ” style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela can influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in the developing world with weakly structured institutional constraints . thus , we would expect less opportunity for transformational leadership .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) launched a plan for tropical forestry ( itu ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated and the latest international effort to halt it , an initiative known as the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) , looks no more likely to be introduced during the un climate change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of these two agreements was , ironically , producing the reams of expensive consultancy reports . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , the eu should instead abandon redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . redd + was created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement that governing its realization takes place during the un climate-change conference in paris in december .
but ethiopia poses a dilemma for anyone concerned with human rights and democracy . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . britain and some other european governments reacted to the post-election crackdown by committing to temporarily withholding aid . donald payne , a leading member of the american house of foreign affairs committee , and ana gomes , a member of the european parliament from portugal and the eu ’s head of observation team in the 2005 election , have sought to tie nonhumanitarian relief to ethiopia ’s conduct of press freedom and other human rights . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea .
at the same time , such efforts are vitally important to find ways to stem the deterioration in people ’s productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical power , mental acuity , and senses like deliberation and vision . to keep people working longer is critical to keep them healthy . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their researching efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic illnesses like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable stage of life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . that is why the health-care industry needs to play a significant role in the effort to tackle population aging .
the initiative brings together private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits . such initiatives bring together a wide range of public and private stakeholders , including from multilateral organizations to funding projects with deep environmental and social impact . the tropical landscapes finance facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program , provides a good example . the other big transition-financing opportunity is in blended finance or collaborative schemes that generate private capital for public goods . moreover , the clean-up approach helps to scale up and de-risk projects and to optimize its financing .
but even the better-performing ones , like brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at risk of a hard landing . countries with large current-account deficits and/or huge fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , have become the most volatile . emerging markets were originally tied to this kind of distress only when foreign investors began pulling their money out . then the panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries to bankrolling the financial system and the corporate sector that experienced credit-fueled booms and borrowed short - and offshore currencies . many emerging markets today appear at risk of a severe financial crisis .
but interventions by bercow and the eu have opened up an entire new game , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit might not happen . nearly three years ago , british voters did not really know what they were doing when they decided with a narrow majority to leave the eu . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . and if may ’s new referendum were to materialize , british voters would most likely have had to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody will dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . this would foil the financial-market speculators who have been betting on withdrawal , and are good news for both the uk and the eu .
in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portends the equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began operating in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state control was relaxed . mao zedong died two years earlier ; in 1976 , the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping out his vision of economic development and modernization to the third plenum of the eleventh central committee held in december 1978 . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were empowered through market incentives . beijing – forty years ago this month – china ’s leaders laid the country on a path of reform that had produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history .
a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel thus turned to an open-ended struggle for dominance in the middle east . iran might never have accomplished this on its own , certainly not long term . the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran , despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ “ “ axis of evil ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in recent months , has been catapulted to regional hegemony . the result has been the rise of some startling , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and american-backed , shia-dominated iraq face down to israel , saudi arabia , and most other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran under its ascendance . jerusalem – the result of misguided american policies – the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud across the middle east .
old social structures were destroyed , socialist customs and habits vanished overnight , former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . people were left to endure the gales of change on their own . to be free but alone is no easy task , especially at the habits of dependency are ingrained . fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere on a curious moment . throughout the postcommunist social revolution ( less widely noted than poland 's political and economic woes ) families and municipalities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church got too much involved in politics to help .
we need final , full ratification of the lisbon treaty in order to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union that we need . the crisis also must not become an excuse for creating new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance of various eu institutions , a balking that , through appropriate adjustment adjustments , has been proven to test on time . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse for calling into question the need to continue and finish the eu ’s enlargement process . of course , the crisis does highlight the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . broadening the eu members ’ pool of liberty and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , particularly throughout eastern europe , is in the interest of any european citizen .
a widely cited example of the outgoing government ’s alleged economic misrule was its sugar-pricing policy . rather than eliminating that system , as predicted , modi ’s government augmented sugar exports subsidies to aid higher output , generated electric import duties to fend off foreign competition , and increased the amount of sugar-based ethanol that had to blend gasoline . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa followers , supposedly drove the government to fix extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production . this goal explains another political reversal as well . his motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s leading sugar-producing state , from the upa in the upcoming state assembly election .
berlin – the german social democrats ( spd ) may no longer treat the existential crisis as a typical party crisis . but , with the spd declining , germany is shifting from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role . the party captured just 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional election this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens at national opinion polls in france . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , opinion polls suggest that the spd will lose still more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii .
how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians keep saving – $ 50 billion – by most estimates , back home ? to achieve that end , russia needs to create a secure and attractive investment climate . russia ’s people need to be persuaded of the country ’s political stability -- that is , nobody suggests nationalization , as happened repeatedly during the eight months from which i was prime minister . while russia alone wo n’t freeze accounts , president putin ’s significance has been obvious : it would be better for all sides if that money were brought home repeatedly and invested in the national economy . most important , if the us is to reverse capital flight , its government must persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand .
opening hungary 's borders that fall and seeking refuge by east german citizens at the german embassies of prague and warsaw already shook the communist and stasi rule to their foundations . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events throughout europe during the fall of 1989 had never been possible . their commitment to the lawlessness of the communist regime stands for me one of the best chapters in german history . for with gorbachev 's ascendance , the more and more of the people in east germany had taken heart , stopping their repressive regime from being afraid . they realized that east germany 's realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that it was possible to achieve change , one that many brave dissidents and proponents of civil rights imprisoned behind the wall demanded for so long .
responsibility-sharing , the foundation of the modern international system to protect refugees , is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto the countries that are least capable of confronting them . and yet , when it comes to the rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome that they receive is increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over the supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . as a result , some – albeit relatively , not many – undertake long and often perilous journeys to the developed world . it is time to reboot global efforts to protect refugees . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with the global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , companies , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and the arts .
the seventh phases of the crisis are one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from a run-up in debt . the sequence so far has been as follows : the euro crisis has passed through six phases so far . markets today remain calm because they demonstrate just the beginning of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe turns into a mired in debt . currently , markets remain calm because they demonstrate just the beginning of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . the sequence so far has been as follows :
between 1985 and 2005 , the boomsters made ten-year forecasts that exaggerated the chances of large positive changes in the two financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as the middle east ’s tranquility and the dynamic growth rate of sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized at least 15 % . second , again as the skeptics had warned , over-claimers rarely paid penalties to be mistaken . in the same period that doomsters implemented even more poorly , exaggerating the odds of negative changes in all the same places where the boomsters accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i continue to await the imminent disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , belgium , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities by 70 % to bleak scenarios that materialized at only 12 % .
it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member or simply in the wto . margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s enormous trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from breaking down in its trade relations with the eu . the economic challenges of brexit would almost certainly be overwhelming . margaret thatcher was the first to need to negotiate access to the european single market in its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy virtually unlimited rights to sell whatever they wanted in britain under the global trade organization rules . the campaign ’s primary economic argument – that britain ’s enormous trade deficit is a stealth weapon – because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in trade relations – is flatly mistaken .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their followers to assume positions within the bureaucracy and within the army . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites tried to harness the power of the army and the bureaucracy to control the elected government . for that , understanding the historic context of the current crisis is critical . in fact , the turkish military , with the support of the judiciary , has explicitly intervened in the civilian government ’s functioning in the 1960s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of upholding secularism .
since then , europeans have been living in another kind of eu . on the surface , the brexit negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or the “ grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . what changed was the germany that had been known since the end of world war ii ? berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union ’s breakup . at a deeper level , though , what was at stake was the eu ’s role in europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country .
egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . by late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against royalist forces . but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab-led military interventions , contrary to those conducted by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya , do not include any promising precedent . despite using banned chemical weapons against the yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , as was the first in the intra-arab conflict , egypt had failed to achieve its aims . such interventions were typically aimed at empowering proxy political forces over its military and political rivals , instead of averting a humanitarian disaster , or institutionalizing a nonviolent conflict-resolution mechanism once again .
unfortunately , however , this norm will apply only to very big multinational corporations , and news outlets will not be publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency . the oecd countries ’ reform process led , for example , to open up sharing among country-by-country tax authorities only after this initial package was unveiled . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” beps were undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational corporations . it initiated , for example , sharing among country-by-country tax authorities reports on these firms ’ profits and tax payments .
pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest share in the developed world ) . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the tax base enough to finance rate cuts to 28 % . lowering the tax preferences for noncorporate business actors ( such as partnership ) that transmit their income through their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base , subject to a corporate-income tax base . likewise , while limiting net interest deductibility for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would broaden the tax base and discourage excessive dependence on debt financing , it would raise the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . several of these players are extremely large and profitable , enjoying equal statutory benefits as corporations .
at the same time , however , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty and will continue to be governed by existing arrangements , covering most aspects of security and civilian administration . israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the land strip along palestinian-egyptian borders . israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . these conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that receives no support among all warring factions , including hamas .
in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has surpassed 10 % . today , that number is less than 3 % , or 10 % of global employment . almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the u.s. peaked at 53 % of gdp . in some of these countries , such as portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment declined by over 20 % . in fact , today , it is less than 3 % of the world 's population .
islamabad -- as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope to see the vote usher in an era of stability and tranquility by lending popular legitimacy to the government . but sometimes democracy promotion is best served by refusal to participate in it . the upcoming elections to be held under the illegal tentative constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 are just such a case , which is one reason why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . in fact , my party ’s support has steadily been rising , with opinion polls now signifying that it is the second most popular in the frontier province , gaining ground in every other province . but , at times , democracy works best by refusing to participate .
as much as bernanke and others like them wish otherwise , and as much as bickering politicians are trying to dump policy responsibilities on others , central banks lack the right tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that result from inadequate investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at increased cost ; for other policymaking entities to put their act together . yet , alas , that shift wo n’t address the problem that eats away at the social fabric of any society . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair disrupted home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . and it is a good thing for the official sector to pay more for joblessness .
indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released early this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . unsurprisingly , the plateau is china ’s new dam building hub . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources lie on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . moreover , china recently slashed the flow of the brahmaputra river ’s tributary , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , to build a dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . in fact , china ’s dam builders are targeting most of the transnational rivers that flows outside chinese territory .
washington , dc , ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was critical to prevent the so-called great recession from growing even worse than it already is . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations , following world war ii . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering .
but this was not a farfetched transformation in a town in which people assumed new identities , such as the nasserist , the ba’ath party , the ba’ath party , or the communist , downplaying its regional and tribal origins . this was certainly true of my parents , who , under the age of 40 , believed that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . other public services were improved just as well , with parents convinced that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . that was certainly true of my own parents , who , in the 1970s , sacrificed much to help lift their nine children . they were not happy with the view that their older sons had become communists , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father .
gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and grants for quality health care . and now policymakers must devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , ensuring that it is adequately trained and trained to confront the challenges that await the region . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across the native-born and migrant populations is often a thorny policy question . that scores on high turnover , owing to overwork and the increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . trainings on the gcc national health systems nowadays do not focus nearly on innovation or systems thinking to improve effectiveness and effectiveness .
the decisive moment came in march , when de gaulle , in a military uniform , went on television to demonstrate his mastery of a new middle class . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , calling on the army to reject even a passive union with an insurrection , and charged it with re-establishing public order . the crucial moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform , traveled on tv to demonstrate his mastery of a new middle ground . if the state backpedaled before the challenge it faced , “ france will be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on an ocean of insecurity , ” ” he warned . “ well , honorable and old country , here the us again faces a severe test , ” ” ” ” he said .
these divisions will enable new forces to emerge in iranian society . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where to discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about a future − that may well make them vulnerable to a reflection on why young iranians do not share that optimism . so all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . just when the world was reaching a consensus that ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed vice president mike pence an vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later recapture that appointment ) . what we do know for certainty is that the regime is unraveling .
common funding , with all members paying a share according to their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve more equitable sharing . over the last few years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to allow for common funding to be used as an incentive to provide certain theater-level theater-level capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports handling armies , troops , and supplies , or the intelligentsia . how can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry against awarding critical enablers like helicopters or the air-to-air refueling tankers ? common funding , with all members paying lip service to their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve even more equitable sharing . over what time , do you make your calculations ?
with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should consider at least rethinking the fundamental assumptions underpinning their policies . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by debt headwinds yet another result of easy monetary conditions . owing to easy finance and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” companies proliferated . moreover , one could argue that easy money alone has contributed to the unexpectedly powerful disinflationary forces that have been seen in recent years . given such conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems especially sick advised .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of last year , regime — once central to american strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable with the us , which drops powerful signals that there are alternatives to saudi military bases there , even to saudi oil . so , among the wrong set of possibilities : the least wrong appears to be cooperation with the u.s. . al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is seen directly as a result of fundamentalist wahhabi teachings that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . while the saudis were not included among president bush ’s own “ axis of evil , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . yet cooperation with the us may not acquire the al-sauds much , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point .
while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these sorts of clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of the victims unable to recall their trauma , precisely because it had been so unjust . how victims will remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today . others disagree arguing that disordered the mind can protect themselves by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it harder for victims to remember their prettiest experiences until it is safe to do so many years later . but these clinical trauma theorists advocate not having enough reason to argue that the “ repressed ” or “ dissociate themselves from the mind ” are either inert or benevolent . how the victims will remember that trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today .
an elé belé is a player who thinks he is participating , but in truth , just stumbles through the motions . in calcutta , when some younger kid arrived along , insisting on joining a play that my friends were playing , we would allow a new kid in this respect , but only after a whispers to one another ’s ears , elé belé . everybody knew that a goal scored true by elé belé was both important . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , we might convey to one another with only a glimpse into what the kid would be elé belé . as a child , mastering the crux of elé belé was vital .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued , for example , that the american economy is caught on a downward trajectory , because today ’s technology innovations will not boost growth at the scale that they had long before . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers has received plenty of attention for his argument that the world is at risk of backsliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” ” because the interest rates needed to drive desired investment in line with desired savings have fallen below zero . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer looks like a binding constraint , there are potential grounds for concern , one that concerns are bearing down on debt levels . as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some warnings that have been made seem outdated . after all , the financial times ’ stock exchanges all-world bank index rose by almost 22 % in 2017 .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to reassert the natural flows of any single river , or lessen cross-border water flows . but even the joint expert-level mechanism established in 2007 only for “ interactions and cooperation on hydrological data ” has proved to be scarce . local authorities in yunnan province are considering damming the salween in the quake-prone region . the only rivers on which non-hydro-engineering works have entered the indus so far are the indus , whose basin collapses mostly in india and pakistan , and the salween that flows to burma and thailand . in fact , far from destroying most of the international rivers that have flowed from tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already threatened with global warming .
eventually , china ’s rapid growth will need to be mirrored by a significant surge in its currency , its domestic price levels , or both . as for china ’s against the renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . perhaps , but most students of us monetary policy regard quantitative easing as the textbook policy of pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity ” trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of a sustained deflation in order to make up the debt burden even worse . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . but , by 2011 , a majority of the equilibration is likely to take place via inflation .
with america distracted by other strategic challenges , not to mention its domestic presidential campaign , asia ’s other powers – namely , the economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are the best candidates for the job . both india and japan are longstanding us-led stakeholders , which emphasize their own international relationships on the values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect for the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation . moreover , they have shown their shared desire to uphold the current asian order . which countries should assume the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? without such cooperation , china ’s ambitions would simply be constrained by domestic factors like faltering economic , rising social discontent , a worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics .
moreover , proper mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . at the same time , appropriate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . but , given that climate change represents a more far-reaching – and severe – challenge , the world must not waver in his determination and commitment to addressing it . developing countries will , according to the un framework convention on sustainable development , and with measurable , reportable and verifiable support in terms of funding , technology , and capacity-building are assuming nationally appropriate mitigation actions . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly aggravated the call for action on climate change . developed countries should fulfill their responsibility , within the framework of the convention , to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to take effective action on climate change .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . kim will join a private capital firm where he believes that he can “ make the greatest impact on major global issues like climate change . ” florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of a us-dominated international financial order free of guidance or direction . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and america ’s federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offers a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for several decades ) . a <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds that wo n’t be repaid either because of perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over every time they mature . that is arguably what the bank of japan ( boj ) now does . nonetheless , it has launched a policy of replacing the government bonds of the boj ’s ’s balance sheet once it is mature , while continuing to increase the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has just said that directly underwrites the budget deficit is not an option at all .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia and rage at gop elites . his supporters are reminiscent of the tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white . media outlets have provided just like the $ 2 trillion worth of free coverage , helped to grab him and hold leading in both the polls and by a majority of primaries . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . in reality , his voters ’ average annual income , at around $ 72,000 , is well above america ’s median of $ 56,000 .
according to the story , descartes was so striking with the grief that he created his automaton , the mechanized doll , built up to appear identical to his own dead daughter . our reactions to soulless bodies are well illustrated in a story told about descartes after his death . descartes was known to have an illegitimate daughter , francesco , who died when she was five years old . once a group of people is viewed as disgusting , attention shifted away from them as a morals . they become soulless bodies , with the moral circle closes in to exclude them .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summarized turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy the peace and stability of our country . we will not change our course ; i do n’t know what we want to do now . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate a nervous response in restricting democratic rights . if these bombings are designed to send a message , i will sweep it away and crush it under the foot . if al-qaeda is behind the terrorist attacks , it grossly miscalculated .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of the many conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who do not in a position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power , will be muzzled . if khamenei does holds fast , mousavi may not get the presidency , but it will continue to represent the hopes of most iranians who differ dramatically with their governing administration . mousavi needs to continue his legislative campaign carefully , without compromising the very trust that got out of the majority of iranians . he must stand with his two principal demands : the nullification of an election , and the establishment of an impartial committee to adjudicate the government according to electoral violations .
but even if yanukovych was thinking primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . imagine that , with that question in mind , he gave comparison to an alternative to a lavish lifestyle ( with a private zoo and a pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably at a substantial wage to which he was right , while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve the lives of ukraine ’s citizens . there is also something even more fundamental than one ’s redeeming feature . imagine that he gave up his call to wonder what makes him happier . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to help the people , and that was supposed to be yanukovych ’s top priority .
two days prior to the north korean delegation reached , north korea ’s ’s ’s bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is the ulterior design of the american to [ he ] more “ zealously ” south korea ’s puppet forces into escalating a confrontation with the dprk in offering to strain the situation on the extreme pitch and ignite [ a second korean second war . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to involve the rest of the world in a constructive , enduring way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are mere putting a very good face to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-monger and the human-rights violator . indeed , the incheon visit will come within a context of mixed briefs . she remains to be seen whether she seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive , sustained manner , or whether dprk , officials and diplomats are mere putting the good face to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violence-iran . two days before the north korean delegation reached , north korea ’s committee continued the bellicose and derogatory language taken by south korea and the us : “ lurking behind that is america ’s ulterior design to [ sdg ] zealously the south korean puppet forces into escalating confrontation with the dprk in an bid to strain of the situation to the extreme pitch and ignite [ a second war . ”
everyone benefits from each of us become good at various things , exchanging our knowhow with others . when an idea is both intuitively true and actually false , it is often because it is true on a single level , but not on a level at which it is being applied . however , specialization at the individual level actually leads to diversification at higher levels . it is not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer to be the same human right . yes , people actually specialize , and should specialize , too .
on the other hand , several people whom i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to stop until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been full informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent reflects its own rhetoric , which eschews unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ engagement and “ community acceptance . ” this means that consent would need to be secured well beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for scarce time ; get unlimited access toon point ; the big picture ; and the ps archive plus our annual journal , just $ 75 subscribeyet , in bana , near bana , said that us , despite meeting with the target of malaria in march . now , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have not adequately consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people had not engaged in any genuinely participatory debate on the target malaria project , let alone extended their informed consent . by nature , gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , with mosquitos , particularly females can surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of kilometers .
young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the u.s. are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . many more have simply become discouraged and fell out of the labor force completely : not in school , and not in work and not looking for work . nowadays , the world 's labor markets are interconnected . china has paid for low , reasonably productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) that have established the standard of competitiveness globally . they do not protest much , but many end up in jail .
orbán has been scamming the eu for years , spurning other populists to pursue his own authoritarian aims , and with the eu funds to boot . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that serves rule-bound rule-of-law interests , by all but guaranteeing not just domestic sanctions . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires a unanimous vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never exploit it . article 7 of the lisbon treaty stipulates that a suspension of a rogue eu member state has ’s voting rights . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent , which serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing not to be punished .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda , saying that there was incontrovertible evidence of links with al qaeda , and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lay . it is also possible that he did not believe what he read . detection technology made it clear that iraq had no nuclear weapons , as chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lay .
returnees are present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . unfortunately , as sri lanka ’s bombings and other attacks in asia show , isis ’s defeat in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , as battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains just how obscure the local group has been able to mount sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosive devices . just as osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
for those of us who lived and worked in the region during this turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . already , the film has won two awards , and it is an emerging box-office success , attesting to the enduring interests , and , perhaps , enigma , that the balkans hold for international audiences as horrified as the events of the 1990 ’s unfolded . one exception , perhaps the one exception , was kiro gligorov , the president of macedonia , who languished in her sleep on new year ’s day chartered , at the age of 94 . denver , angelina jolie ’s new movie , “ in the land of bloodlines and honey , ” strikes on the ethnic tensions that produced the bloodiest conflicts in europe since world war ii . as jolie ’s film so ably shows , neither the international community nor the local leaders have made a concerted effort to avoid the carnage .
and this process is likely to accelerate even as british prime minister theresa may manages to obtain her proposed exit deal through parliament . beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms are also starting to relocate jobs . there are evidence from falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the us economy ’s disappointing level of inward investment . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are also signs that companies with uk-based operations have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans after a prolonged period of wait , planning , and waiting .
opinion polls currently bouncing wildly out of france , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in hamon support among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . but if macron qualifies for a second-round run-off , however , he would entail a greater threat to le pen than the outright leftist candidate would have . he advocate local decision-making whenever possible and effective , but also supports national and european-level decision-making , where this is appropriate ; the key is that processes should be flexible and enable citizen participation . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential in empowering its citizens . and he views globalization as a good thing , but understands that it needs to be managed through durable , effective international agreements and institutions .
an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in the collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on this enormous potential to forge the logic of worldwide solidarity . achieving these goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to future world developments . the european project is a realist ’s response to globalization and its challenges . it was launched to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability , and consolidating democracy and the european social model .
for starters , there is his response to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” – that is , it claimed , did not demand that they reassess their own theory . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ “ data collection . ” they had “ “ overlooked ” ” ” ” ” in the financial system ’s critical institutional changes . krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the latter .
in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also more focused on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in europe ’s vastly different political landscape ’s postcommunist states , the left is either very weak or totally absent from the political mainstream . one aspect of this divergence is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks against abstract liberal institutions like the freedom of speech and the judicial independence.this should n’t be all too startling . after all , liberalism in eastern europe has been western , too . the same can not be said for the kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans have tended to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who moved beyond fear of physical safety to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . notwithstanding trump and brexit phenomena , the us and the eu have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism .
yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s declining exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains robust . nowadays , most forecasters are placing the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . unless germany can shift to a more domestic-demand-fueled growth model , that projection probably turns out to be correct . as for the eurozone , we seem to have been far too optimistic , even as we foresaw a drop in potential growth to around 1.5 % . but that is a big “ if . ”
in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would have prevented an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey ’s accession . but the magnitude of those transfers would still depend on the eu ’s financial policies at a time of admission , the result of accession negotiations , and , perhaps , economic developments in turkey . given the predictable upswing in turkey ’s economy and its falling birthrate , experts predict a figure of around 2.7 million migrants by that point . immigration should not be a cause for undue concern . human mobility is restricted , and turkey ’s workers ’ party would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long period of transition , perhaps not before 2025 .
more than most people realize , the gospels treat the recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as the perpetrators of a crime that lives on every generation . just as whites attribute the extraordinary sexual powers to black men , so the christian west ’s instinct is to treat jews as the masters of an extraordinary force -- including the power to kill deities and control of world finance . anti-semites often cite the passage of a passage in matthew , in which a jewish mob cheat by christ inattentive to christ ’s execution and tacitly accept enduring guilt : “ its blood rests on us and on our children . ” the later evangelist john concludes that because jews deny the christian messiah that they must be “ the sons of the devil . ” matthew then attributes to the jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ its disciples come at night , stealing him while we sleep . ”
thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against smes , the opening salvo in the crisis . so the idea that “ this country is different ” was that the rules of global finance failed to apply it proved utter nonsense . but , with overly macho gone , too much politics and provincialism , reform never really happened . fueled by the illusion of a powerful reserve-currency position , the thai central bank took on speculators -- and then lost . by the end of the time crisis , thailand looked as everyone else as it did in desperation to the imf .
that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protests movements are not well equipped : they can arouse the public conscience , but can not formally commit governments . hence the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests delivered , the hour of governments had arrived . but how can those concessions , given under duress , be secured ? now there is no question that only other governments will be able to do so as well . that , after all , was the attempt to nail down the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of governments arrived .
not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . but , because the regime is being forced to dedicate more resources to silencing an informed solution , the majority will suffer economically . clearly , the majority of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are rising . as the kremlin ’s top propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) will breeds social unrest .
london – officials in the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will n’t weaponize the renminbi . ” many wonder whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war with the us . if it does , the world should call his bluff . china ’s monetary policy got to the fore , now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods . and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency to a strategic end , then , is their capacity to do so , as long as they so desired .
my professional focus is on economics , so i stressed the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . besides contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , it would seem that migrants also often complement native-born skills , helping them to earn more . the fact that the developed world is changing culturally also issues , perhaps even more so . in the american case , for example , the foreign-born share of the population surged from more than 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for generational change in the leadership , and , more important , for the transition to post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the arab youth movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the first intifada ’s principal organizers , which resulted in its deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . the plo ’s old guard , male like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the peoples ’ organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords , dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . after walking through the scenes , palestinian leaders who were born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons , will most likely fill that vacuum . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of a youth movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the first intifada ’s principal organizers , which resulted in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s .
these are the key ingredients in the putin nationalist duma , which appears to be appeals to russians nowadays . but , in order to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to assume its stand on more or less liberal ideological foundations . the regime is likely to try to counter that eruption of nationalism , while retaining its powerful statist rhetoric , will not be easy . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the soviet union , his regime is fully aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . but , to defeat putin will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus .
today , coal and natural gas provides more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for up to 5 % . this new load would easily replace the electricity that the country produces with six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is similarly committed . for the past year , as responding to the public ’s opposition to nuclear energy as part of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai has just vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free by 2025 . tsai has been calling for the share of renewables to rise to 20 % over the next eight years , with the capacity coming primarily from solar and wind .
only in recent decades have biofuels regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and alleviate the dependency on which ford warned . as the production of these fuels grows , we will require policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they employ sustainably , without disrupting food markets , or compromising food security that will always be the first priority . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on a fuel that originated from peanut oil . henry ford once sheted florida in the hope of purchasing soil tracts to plant sugarcane , convinced the united states that it would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels , or the dependency implied by importing oil to produce gasoline . the pioneers of biofuels would likely have been surprised by how little they contribute to total world fuel supply today .
one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . in towns , displays in shops windows illustrated the cost of tariffs to ordinary consumers . many of the british were believed in the “ free trade ” empire of the day . others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on mount sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , the future prime minister of georgia , told audiences that he felt more scared by the german consumer than he was by the german navy . liberals and radicals organized traveling show , colorful posters , and political entertainment .
attempting to create the european equivalent of the us dollar , and imposing a fiscal union at the top , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to go bankrupt . an inordinately lax regulatory environment turned out to be lethal , reassuring northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with their southern european government and bank bonds . it turns the member countries into borrowers and lenders into one another , stoking the even deeper animosity . it turns member countries into borrowers and lenders , stoking even more animosity . europe now should exploit the tranquility of storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up .
indeed , the latter now stand at over 15 % of gdp . the hits chinese exports are likely to take off as a result of the region ’s currency depreciations are , nevertheless unlikely to be felt immediately . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened . rival asian economies will need to stabilize before they can push their exports aggressively .
moreover , there are real disagreements within america 's bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to american interests . following from above , it means backing the initial and important efforts undertaken by others . operationally , it is limited to isr , and it does not involve ground troops . for europeans , this situation is worrying about two counts . symbolically , it means backing the initial and considerable effort undertaken by others .
by contrast , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions , like its pension funds , they can be identified and taxed . the private sector had large foreign assets , whereas the government had approximately equal holdings of foreign liabilities . this is mostly the case in europe . even so , argentina went bankrupt because affluent argentines spirited their assets out of the country , and thus away from their government ’s reach , while poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to please foreign creditors ’ claims . that analysis suggests that the “ over-[ current-account ” imbalances were to be introduced under the ongoing eurozone governance reform goes the right way .
will social and economic reforms be undertaken to ensure the equitable distribution of a country ’s oil and gas wealth ? disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems in large part from their shared love of soccer . likewise , will the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan be household names . but exposure to foreign television stations means that many disillusioned algerians are looking to flee to italy , france , or germany as their only hope for employment and decent life .
in short , like greenspan departs , he left behind an american economy burdened with high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets , a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they had boosted investment , but because they caused households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing bubble . the most plausible explanation is the mix of both , for he and bush to pursue the same “ starve the beast ” policy strategy – which calls for tax cuts being used to bring down revenues – thereby forcing the public sector to become downsize . it remains to be seen which led greenspan to endorse a tax cut . was that massive economic misjudgment or so currying favor with the bush administration ?
and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement has important potential to drive migrants into europe . competition for arable land has contributed to the rwandan genocide of 1994 . ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflict over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . a historic drought may have created the conditions needed for syria ’s civil war . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , especially as the impact of climate change worsens existing problems .
because they run far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita for a carbon dividend . on their own , this would represent a smart step in the right direction , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than trump . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly affluent high polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income – polluters , all while cutting carbon emissions . but let ’s not allow anyone to say that it ’s a silver bullet . more to the point , they would represent a smart step in the right direction , whereas the poorest 60 % of americans would return beyond it .
by contrast , she supports an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership just as accommodating trade unions . this does n’t mean merkel is a free-market capitalist , there is little evidence of this . german chancellor angela merkel does n’t make speeches attacking a strong euro , and the european central bank has a price-stability mandate . by contrast , she supports an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s own trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-inflationary currency policy .
and the eu ’s outlook is n’t that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , its integration , and the peaceful reconciliation of member states over the interests of its member states . because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with the european union . owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of europe . just as a french security can not exist without germany , no german security can exist without poland . germany ’s placement alone makes a bad idea for nationalism ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , prosperous eu , particularly in trump ’s old age . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , of integration , and a peaceful reconciliation between member states ’ interests .
indeed , very few of those who receive ect also receive benzodiazepines , causing significant autobiographical memory issues when given alone , and antipsychotic drugs , causing difficulties with names or telephone lists , as well as other comparable problems . what ’s the same is true of antidepressants . but at least critics have found it hard to demonize memory , or any other , cognitive problems that endure beyond less than three months . there is no dispute that ect is likely to inflict its short-term memory at all . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and the inability to remember the lists readily attributed to ect as ect because ect is rarely gave to its own .
if the cac demanded , say , 75 % of each bond class holders , the vultures could buy 26 % of only a single bond class and block the entire restructuring . so , why should we consider that they would suffice in the far more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? above all , cacs are suffering from the “ aggregation ” problem . but in fact , no government on the right has found cacs suitably adequate to adjudicate domestic restructuring . if they were , there would be no need for home-equity bankruptcy laws that spells out issues such as precedence and equitable treatment .
we have arrived at this moment precisely because both russia and the west spent more than ten years seeking unilateral advantages , and eschewing negotiated compromises . holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require a substantial investment in political capital for a sustained period of time . the eu should strengthen the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations , precisely what has long been sorely lacking in western policy on ukraine ’s crisis and in the face of the post-soviet eurasian region . a quick deal will not be possible , but neither . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time .
but it also represents the global gold standard in a number of fields , including technology , defense and research and development . the american federal government ’s size and power grew only slowly until the 1930s , when a new deal comprising federal programs , public works projects , and financial reform and regulation was implemented in response to the great depression . the us government projected a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security . in contrast to china ’s ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in their citizens and leaders a commitment to liberty , including free markets and civil autonomy . the american federal government expanded its influence again during and after wwii , reflected the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by a new deal to support unionization and home ownership ) .
abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the paris attacks in november 2015 , claimed that he was one of only 90 isis-trained terrorist groups in europe . the exact number of european fighters , who received training from isis and return home , remains unknown . france has also suffered more than 230 deaths , and some 700 injuries , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injuries . france has also suffered more than 230 deaths , and some 700 injuries , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injuries . isis has so far hit france and turkey hardest .
fortunately , the afghan government has begun opening its doors to innovative ngo models like the brac ’s community-based education program . in bangladesh , for example , run schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which are key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . women account for just one-third of all teachers in afghan primary and secondary schools , owing partly to extraordinarily low levels of female literacy . yet a shortage of skilled female teachers is making scaling up such efforts difficult to impossible . to account for the learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to build strategic partnerships with non-state providers .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to fund the regime of ’s allies and clients , rather than benefiting the entire population . as a result , capital and skill sets were misallocated , the entrepreneurial climate worsened , and competition , innovation and growth suffered . fueled by economic grievances , these economic shocks were emboldened by improved broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state ( isis ) and the bush war in syria . these regimes dominated every country at the private sector , through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute the rents to its clients , but also to block the rise of autonomous actors that might finance the opposition movements . those economic shocks exposed the huge costs borne by each country ’s sectarian-based political system .
this raises the old question of whether a currency union can function without a fiscal union or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit commitments being too easily violated ) . at present , it boldly emphasizes the disparate , even the discordant , fiscal reactions now being embraced by european governments . but the heightened flexibility in response to economic shocks will almost certainly test this . will the euro of the second decade prove to be just as successful as the first ? to that , we must add coordinated financial regulation and a bailout policy , because deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and european insurance coverage .
but imagine a world in which textbooks are modified to aid their kids with their homework because texts are merely in english . today , however , the pluto stay on the to-earth list in science textbooks and know how long it takes for it to be eliminated . such a world was just a fantasy ten years ago ; it is a model that can be established . but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually replacing and corrected entirely by a legion of contributors . today , language barriers keep many immigrant parents from assisting their children with their homework because the texts are only in english .
one powerful school of thought that emerged almost immediately after the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders were also reckless . by provoking the regime , students derailed any chance at the time of slow political reform that their more moderate elders had set foot in train . indeed , so proponents of that school often add here , china was n’t even ready for democracy at all . if , on the other hand , they could just go into china . it should have been obvious to them that a violent crackdown was inevitable .
yet international donors are dragging their feet both in meeting existing commitments and in making new ones . it ’s too late now for the non-military tools of coercion to have a major impact , even as the security council threatens the international criminal court for action on atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – to stay on the table . delivery challenges abound in war zones , but not everywhere . and all support around the world will not stop the killing . but what about the military-reaction options still overwhelmingly favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
by slapping tariffs on america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s closest allies , trump is practically pushing them into china ’s arms . yet , by reneging on america ’s nuclear deal with iran , trump has rendered war in the region more probable . for example , when trump is calling for reductions in america ’s military engagement with the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . and , by taking the way of easing north korea ’s international isolation , while obtaining almost nothing in return , he has consolidated china ’s position in east asia . trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating .
communicating between users and government services is vital to achieving any real improvements . each country could create a council featuring public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) and major users ( the exporters and logistics company ) that must work together to identify ways to lower its logistics cost . regions then can turn to growth engines . it ’s just as vital , although committees are developed along similar lines in each country ’s provincial districts . each country could create a council representing a public body ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to lower its logistics cost .
the fdp ’s thinking has broad support in germany and among german economists ( and is being shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they are consistent with the positions it undertook as germany ’s ministry of finance under its previous administrations . as we saw ten years ago , however , financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can turn into fragile and resilient , imposing high costs on society . the idea of a temporary european exit is particularly ill-advised . but policies that might work in the perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets might have been dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets .
will this return to robust growth or an anemic recovery , à la japan , in the 1990s ? consumption and investment will cut back further , as will credit . many wall street financiers , having received cash gobs , are returning to their low-deficit fiscal religions . right now , i cast my vote for the latter , primarily because the enormous debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is required . without a large stimulus ( well over 2 % of gdp ) , we will face a vicious adverse spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , pushing down stock prices and raising interest rates , undermining consumer confidence , and weakening banks .
it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . yet , in rich countries today , sentiment has turned against free trade . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in some of the world ’s poorest parts over the next 15 years . prague , global free trade provides the greatest opportunities for human well-being over the coming decade and a half . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be addressed better ; but costs are vastly outweighed by benefits .
whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the “ us versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nonetheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa such as the majority of muslims worldwide exhibit a “ us versus them ” mentality . whether they like it or not , the majority of sub-saharan african muslims today are represented by states that are predominantly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions . nevertheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , such as the majority of muslims around the world , exhibit a “ us versus them ” mentality . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains the exception of islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , making it clear that the notion of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . when muslims make up their minority , they tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but , where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” merely “ serves as an excuse for doing nothing about health , about education , or about redistribution . ” “ one percent of real growth means doubling the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years from now . ” and it is an obsession , in essence , rooted out in the present . piketty sees that as grounds , “ to be totally optimistic . ” and it is an obsession rooted in centuries of growth .
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . just as the european commission had warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ “ an economic competitor ” in the pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . at the same time , europeans are justifiably worried about economic concerns . at the same time , the coming year will be critical . this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous eu communiqués .
center-leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , may reappoint powell , who has done a good job , or choose a moderate democratic economist , like former fed vice chair alan greenspan or former us treasury secretary larry summers . while the democrats have often criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . trump , who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would most likely choose a dovish candidate . a final question to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as the next fed chair . a left-leaning democrat might do just that , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive amounts of fed-financed debt .
the boston globe , for example , ran an article about the person , identified only by his first name , the danny , whom the brotherhood ’s brothers carjacked up three days after the attack . the danny claimed that the brotherhood ’s only word ’ conversations to understand it fell by “ manhattan , ” and one that the terrorists had asked if his car could leave the state , say , to get to new york . the globe , ’s one-source report turned out to be anything , and was unverifiable by other reporters or citibank , but suggesting a lot , leading to the spate of equally unverifiable reports that new york had been targeting . in charsavage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising ” – ” ” ” a new york times credulously reproduced a “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials showed reporters in a videotapes still . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting was as flimsy as it was .
at the same time , those gains have not been evenly spread , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and the just-released international food policy research institute , examines the global economic downturn beginning in 2012 , at the levels of rural populations . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” ” ” ” ” and it reinforces the case for policies and investment specifically targeting rural areas , which is where poverty-reduction measures are in place more worldwide , and will have a bigger impact . it finds that , due to the sdgs , around 38 million more people will remain mired in extreme poverty in 2030 than likely would have otherwise have been , with middle-income farm households particularly at risk . with the third study , funded by ifad and the recently released world food policy research institute , rural areas examines their future potential .
the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics had forced the british government to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard . but once the political franchise had been enlarged , the working class organized , and mass politics became the norm ; domestic economic goals were started to compete with ( and to overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the bretton woods regime ’s architects kept that lesson in mind as they redrafted the world ’s monetary system in 1944 . those policies could then completely subjugate the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work hand in the agriculture sector . yet the region ’s women often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or poor soils , but because of their sex – or , more explicitly , because of a dense corporate web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that place them at significant disadvantage .
as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee saving and integration , can help to mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and re-tooling workers , especially the long-term unemployed . beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that fills the tv screens and the front pages of newspapers lie the imperative not to miss out on the massive medium-term opportunities that migration provides . while there are pockets of high unemployment in europe today , the ratio of workers to the elderly will fall well behind in the longer term . after all , a substantial share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes .
for example , if an independent worker drives a single hour for uber , and walks his hour on a rover , any platform would contribute an equal amount toward either his or her benefits . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , the opportunities that the gig worker will make will rise . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their contributions , eventually acquiring a safety net like that of a full-time contracted worker . and , if access to a host of valued benefits , from employer health insurance to pensions is conditional on registering their businesses and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of worker benefits and responsibility .
implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . for starters , they must take action to safeguard the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and farmworkers . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can tap into new technologies . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disaster , by building more efficient , robust protection systems . british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disaster , by building more efficient , robust protection systems .
frankfurt , the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . the unintended consequences of this policy become increasingly visible and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . crisis management has led to considerable market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer explainable by even fundamental economic data . key interest rates have remained close to zero for six years now . in fact , financial markets are inundated by liquidity .
designs are being inspired by cognitive sciences , the arts , even the fiction of science . we have seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that allows gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community , the concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users may barely recognize what it was . indeed , designs are inspired by advances in cognitive science , the arts , even the fiction of science . it ’s easy to forget that , years earlier , telephones had no buttons or dial – you had to pick up a handset , asking the operator to make that connection . we were seeing hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that lets gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community , knew that visualization could be so radical that most ordinary users could barely recognize what it was . the telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated “ user ” interface scientists ” at west electric thought what the most intuitive form should be .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” ” ” ” ” because he always looked ahead , in contrast to his careless brother , epimetheus , whose name means “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed her brother , not to accept zeus , a dangerous donation . later , however , he came to realize his terrible mistake . as the more aspirational and justifiably paranoid of the us , prometheus tried to warn of his brother not to receive zeus any dangerous donation . but this is not yet the whole story ; it is the entire story .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is easy : one can argue that the immediate cause of the breakdown , when examined closely , is not really all that really serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu a new , much easier means to assume majority voting in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member country has multiple voting , weighted according to the populists , but small countries are protected by having proportionally more votes than the large countries do . the chances are good for them . this system is known as qualified majority voting .
several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for bio-fuels sector crops , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . while these factors undoubtedly place upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies have boosted this trend further , as have protectionist measures , such as trade restrictions . strong economic growth and expansionary monetary policies have boosted this trend further , owing to protectionist measures , such as limits on exports . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , have hit their highest in 30 years , causing political and economic vulnerability , and leading to food riots – in many countries .
this highlights another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . indeed , turkey offered logistical support to the islamic state , even as it allowed the group ’s killing members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . erdoğan ’s ambition to rebuild turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving it to collude with that challenge to the western-devised regional order . in a video produced following the battle for the mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ end of the sykes-picot , ” and proclaimed the need to reassert the west ’s imposed political map by the middle east . the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring .
but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at the behest of “ “ “ world jewry ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists , such as those who believe , of the 1908 young turks revolution , and of the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear a dog whistle beyond his condemnations of finance forces – forces that now seem to be demanding higher interest rates . it should never be forgotten that trump has been conflicts of the road in us politics by promoting a racist “ birther ” argument that argued that then-president barack obama was n’t born in the us , and therefore did n’t qualify for the office he held . since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown .
we are also doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors . to ensure full transparency in the tender process and dismantling the problems experienced in the recent us , western advisers are aiding the us . for our goal , large western energy companies with expertise at this point are being formed as strategic investors . ten leading international energy companies , indeed , will contribute to privatization of their first corporate group .
of course , japan , korea , and singapore had similar political models in the past ( though they later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are again espousing forms of state capitalism , and returning to industrial policies ( encouraged , as did the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for reversing the decline in government intervention ) . in japan , the postal services that has been privatized are to be re-introduced , and the role that government finance strengthens . even so , chinese policy choices have markedly effect on other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model now essentially imitating elsewhere in the region . japan ’s air lines , seemingly bankrupt , have been rescued by a government bailout , a device that appears increasingly common .
since the 2008 financial crisis , however , europe has profited from falling commodity prices . in contrast , many emerging-market economies , highly dependent on commodity export earnings , had been stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially add to their plight , in some cases disastrously . without the ecb ’s commitment , in place since 2012 , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would be an unyielding risk to the eurozone – and , indeed , to the entire edifice in europe – of sovereign-debt defaults . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers .
almost half of the labor force is unemployed ; local industries have collapsed . water and sewage systems are failing ; the garbage piles up in the streets . and let the world consider that conditions are even worse today than at any time since the occupation began . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in abject poverty ; eight out of ten are dependent on food aid . let the world recall that the gaza crisis was manmade .
new york – the european union needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the refugee crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over asylum-seekers so that they take place in a safe , orderly manner , and at a pace reflecting europe ’s capacity to absorb them . every member state has selfishly focused on its own self-interest , often acting against the interests of others . asylum seekers have been the main victims , often at least for the time being . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to crises , one that reasserts effective governance over asylum-seekers flows in order to take their place in a secure , orderly , and forward-looking manner , and reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to be doubted that he would be ready to take risks with a new economic model if sustainability shows itself incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . the economists would concede that xi ’s campaign conveniently removed many of his would-be rivals . but they would argue that his enhanced position now enables him to replace a credit-fueled , debt-financed growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists will come in , conveniently removing many of its would-be rivals . to be sure , whether they are right now by offering new ways to correct or avoid possible mistakes .
the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create an intra-european conflict . unfortunately , his insight was correct : european countries today find themselves at loggerheads not in the face of a common currency , but precisely because of it . the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create intra-european conflict . at that time , he derided , and regarded the entrenched adversary of the european project . in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , european union representatives devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at a time primarily german-reparations ) . history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers are a grave danger .
whereas the key distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in brave new world , people are once divided by different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . to be sure , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . to be sure , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of a political order over that of orwell . the same one could say for china today , where the gaps between rich and poor , urban , and rural populations are so great that it is much harder to do than before to people from the varied walks of life to feel sharing shared plights and goals . sometimes , like the recent use of violence to quell south chinese peasants ’ official land-grabs , the ccp continues to demonstrate its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-ground ” to suppression .
fears of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do are not immutable . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunity face an uphill battle in triumph over voters . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . there are similar trends in many european countries as well .
copenhagen – in one of his first foreign-policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused attention on climate change , making a clear case for both his priorities and those of the facts on which those priorities rest clearly . obama ’s policy outline was presented via videos to california governor arnold schwarzenegger for the global warming summit , and showed anew in poznan , poland , to the leaders assembled by flesh out the global warming roadmap . unfortunately , both are weak or even downright wrong . such a declaration is now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , even as it neglects to handle the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . according to obama , the “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change ” .
but the fusion of identity was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the uncertainty created by the northern irish “ backstop . ” its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective meaning , as was the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identity was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the uncertainties created by the northern irish “ backstop ” . still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied raw materials , creating globe-spanning professional opportunities for all residents of the british isles . before creating an overseas empire , first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia , the english had erected an empire by expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest .
whereas a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes steal from everybody . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a counterweight to countries with deep political divisions . they are indispensable for safeguarding free societies . freedom of speech and other fundamental rights is not elitist luxuries as authoritarians claim . this is one reason why corruption sparked mass protests from bucharest to brasilia over the last year .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against that background of disenchantment , not according to an ideal moral or economic norm . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge . viewed in other words , trumpism might be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , rather than the portent of its disintegration . the promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is sensible , though it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed this way , trump ’s ’s ’s isolationism is a populist way to argue that the american people need to withdraw from the commitments that it neither possesses nor will to honor .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won the general election by mobilizing large constituencies against the then-prime minister shimon peres ’s apparently intent to the “ breaking ” of jerusalem . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework deal for an conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy , not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces . in a last-ditch effort to improve his proposal ’s stated chances of success , us president barack obama – who has mostly avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu in the white house to urge him to moderate his position . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” ” ” ” – a conviction that , yet again , to unravel the israel-palestine peace process – are simply a non-starter .
both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from those of the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve , and the bank of japan . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from those of the economies that they were tasked with managing . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism among monetary policy , financial markets , and the asset-dependent economy . and the boj ’s alchemists have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . and the boj ’s alchemists have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit .
it was henry kissinger , who argued after the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of 2001 , that the tragedy could be turned into an occasion . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia has a very large part of the solution . if the prague summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rodrigo duterte . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers us an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis , joint decision-making , and even joint action . much has already been accomplished over the past six months to convert rome ’s political message into practical collaboration .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terrorist activities outside iran , and a puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet to iranians , it was a more complicated figure . nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime pressed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or “ caesar-like warrior-poet . ” nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime has pushed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . while regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , many iranians who had lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora have seen him differently .
his endorsement of el khomri law , which made fire workers easier , and his opposition to a 35-hour week , indicate his desire to increase the french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ” yet he also wants to boost the us economy with a meager € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and an extension of the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth and relied on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to slash the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . a vocal critic of protectionism would push an eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states .
prague : many americans seem to be overwhelmed by the feeling that , because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can be crossed off the list of potential risks . never in the modern era , however , have isolationism protected america from peril ; instead , it delays engagement as conflagrations ablaze . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it has a return in fits and differing forms . in the end , america pays 1,000 times more for its ultimate lack of interest than it would have paid for its becoming engaged in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . america , they are saying , should pay attention to its own problems , and should not get involved in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded .
using the asset-backed security model , we recently joined the un ’s green climate fund and china to structure an additional $ 450 million of “ green bond ” facility . here , too , there are many other areas in which those committed to the fight against climate change can follow our example . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation and insurance companies to finance indirectly the needed facilities upgrades in mom-and-pop stores and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego . this will enable pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly the critical facilities in mom-and-pop stores and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego . here , too , creative solutions are possible .
such an alliance would also allow a new european foreign policy , one promoting peace and sustainable development , underpinned by a new security arrangement that does not rely so heavily on american participation . once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and european-style unity could make all the difference . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , and should , believe , regain control over its borders , allow it to rebuild and enforce needed limits on migration . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem obvious . the spd should hold out for its ministerial leadership on economic and financial policies , while the cdu/csu would maintain the violence .
that ’s why it ’s time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a chinese-oriented third arrow : the new growth strategy . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . as the deflation gap narrows , the overall impact on monetary policy will weaken , as it increasingly distorts prices more than output . when there is enough excess supply in the economy , fostering supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts to boost demand . in any case , the success of monetary policy makes denial difficult .
race has always been a provocative subject when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that debate is heating up again in france as planned for “ ethnic statistics ” has cast a vicious dispute that touches on the very heart of french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government leaders find it forbidden to collect information about a citizen ’s ethnic or religious origin , whether real or supposed , when conducting a census or other attempt to collect statistical information on the population . there are two main reasons for this . first , the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , that recognizes only citizens and embraces no distinction among them , because of origins , race , or religion .
in politics and entrepreneurship , integrity and accountability must be the rule rather than the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for reaching this end . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective mix of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and can end impunity . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule rather than the exception . no one prefers to live in a society where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services such as health care and education .
recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in a society is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction is higher . but the objective is surely worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also an economically expensive and deeply corrosive of well-being . compelling americans , russians , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption can actually control might seem like a futile task . in these countries , the ministers are forced to resign themselves to petty infractions that would seem trivial in other countries . among other reasons , commercial agreements are more readily achievable and effective .
there is an urgent need to “ restock its emergency arsenal , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” particularly as there is relatively little scope to relax monetary policy . the fed has begun a process of normalization of monetary policy , but has done little to end it , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to keep out by heckling from the sidelines . the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of a post-crisis program . as they put it , “ “ the use of fiscal adrenaline ” might be constrained just when it needs most . bank capital has been strengthened enormously , and the transparency of derivatives markets materially strengthened .
as a case in point , many western observers have come to think that norway ’s trade relationship with china will be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . so western diplomats who negotiate with china should call the lower-level officials his bluff , and are focusing on forward the signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are being made quietly at a higher level by some pragmatic leaders , who are indeed susceptible to pressure . but china has loudly refused to allow liu to work out his prize , and has even endangered norway ’s financial repercussions . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies has concluded a drilling deal with norway , and even threatened norway with financial repercussions .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s sustained malaise does n’t bode well for global growth . indeed , globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn demanding more global cooperation . we might hoped-for america to show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in managing global warming ; in democratizing international economic institutions ; and in giving aid to poorer countries . america should hope for all this , though i am not sanguine to get a lot on it , & more likely , america will muddle through , here another little agenda for struggling students and homeowners , end bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires but no wholesale tax reform , severe cutbacks in defense spending , or significant progress in global warming . that means that the system ’s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial-sector regulation and of antitrust and corporate-governance laws , coupled with reasonable enforcement to ensure that markets do n’t become rigged casinos .
the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . so it is little wonder that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states , seek to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . indeed , iran is the only country that openly decries its desire to destroy yet another united nations member . thus , little wonder that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and gulf states are trying to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region .
so , despite today ’s interruptions , the context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . the two parties ’ agendas are , however , different : while syria focuses on the symbolic significance of the golan heights , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern borders , just as the end of syrian-backed hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . nor is jerusalem vulnerable to attack by the golan heights , because syria , bereft of soviet aid , is likely to be more flexible than in the past , when the golan had been a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . for israel , a quid pro quo for return to the golan is not a piece with normal phrases of peace and coexistence .
in the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would have been hard to sustain . likewise , the army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are overly disgruntled by the recent police and military reforms to attend a bloody clampdown , special-operations force from the provinces , staffed with veterans of the chechen war , may cherish the excitement generated by poignant moscow fat cats . but , whereas some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be hard to sustain . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful to the pay hike that putin ’s united russia party has announced with much fanfare , soon before the recent duma elections .
not proceeding now with bank recapitalization , as well as government bond purchases , would similarly lead to disaster scenarios . that is why european leaders have taken the ambitious steps they have made . not moving forward on the euro would have set europe on an even more disruptive crisis . the crisis of 1992 revealed the current system to be fragile . but not proceeding would also be an unmitigated disaster .
moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america ’s pacific century ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” indicating a shift in america ’s ’s ’s global strategy . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as president , he stressed that he was from hawaii and proud to be “ america ’ first pacific president . yet its diplomatic cognitive dissonance criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to supply it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s approach has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . america , of course , claims that it also knows all about democracy .
of course , some of america ’s allies are better suited than others to get those points across their audience on the other side of the atlantic . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only and certainly not the automatic “ grave consequence ” to follow from failing to iraq . to give additional credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that , had the war become america ’s only option . alas , the german government , through its behavior under chancellor schroeder ’s leadership campaign last september , has maneuvered itself from having any authority over the issue . alas , the german government , itself should emphasize , does not suffer through avoidance of war but gains further through its control over iraq ’s hitherto covert military effort .
in fact , studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly for women . this applies particularly to female farmers , which face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . africa ’s smallholder family farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource rivalry fueled by surging populations , face an even harder bureaucratic hurdle : no paper on the other side to show that the land they call home is theirs . uncertain about their ability to control their farms at the next moment of season , farmer ’ planning horizons shrink . instead of investing in terraced fields , tree planting , and buy high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term earnings .
but this does n’t seem to be what german voters want , specifically with the ecb and the euro , to act . coupled with all of this , it does n’t seem to be what german voters want , and this has made the complexion of german politics four years from now the incalculable . it is not that the end of the european monetary union is on the agenda ; rather , it is simply that people have started to think about the possible , low-probability futures in which the exit in emu could take place on the agenda . what i believe is that germany would be a better place in a decade , under more neo-liberal policies . that is enough to shake asset prices around the world .
indeed , the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second front finisher , maliki ’s state of the law coalition . but , within iraq , there are very few people , both sunni or shia , who do not view iraqiyya as a party dedicated to rebuilding sunni leadership . rather , it is described as a national party that encourages people of all orientations to participate . that vision has enormous appeal among those who wish to see the less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as a sunni party .
in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and unable to generate sustainable profits . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger , like the commerzbank , another german institution . but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” ” with too many branches , too few deposits , and financing costs that far exceed those of their more prosperous peers . all of this creates substantial downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , europe ’s entire political experiment . restoring stability to europe ’s banking system – by the imf ’s own estimate – will require at least one-third of european banks to close or join .
monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; prevent asset price growth is notoriously tricky ; and the kinds of structural reforms required to ensure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly popular . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . but a powerful rise in low-quality leveraged loans should also be a concern . they should care about preventing real-estate bubbles , because real estate represents a massive share of total wealth and a key collateral source in finance . today , ’s febrile political environment surely will not streamline matters .
but the european central bank , notably by the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction , a case that is politically momentous and deeply moral . in the run-up to the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt reduction . indeed , the principle of not spendthrift on public debt is deeply intertwined with advancing legal security , representative government , and a modern democracy . many economists argued that this case based on arithmetic calculations . so perhaps the eu is a good idea to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed .
unfortunately , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from over . in fact , some conservative republicans object to another of his appointments , marvin goodhart of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed may need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or a financial crisis . indeed , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and many republican incumbents would have embraced a disrupter , for example , a disciple of ron “ ron “ to end the fed ” paul – or another conservative to assume a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . trump may just keep his powder dry , until a real conflict erupts . and , though someday , the fed will almost certainly embrace that counsel ( i was also leaked on the issue ) , goodhart ’s nomination barely survived america ’s senate banking committee .
furthermore , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the rising middle class ’s expectations for improved infrastructure , expanded access to healthcare and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? yet india continues to face many challenges : nearly 300 million people living in poverty , the spreading naxalite rebellion , the dangers of terrorist attacks ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums ? now , these problems will not be solved overnight . but the increasing conviction that they will better sustain india ’s polity .
finally , the ap is unlikely to face financial sanctions for that mistake . as a result , the proliferation of security lapses implies that people are more likely to shrug its shoulders than to cast the first stone at an old company that is violated . because few mechanisms can prevent the proliferation of hoaxed tweets by addressing the high-profile response that successful programmers could expect , twitter will remain a vehicle for malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers make attacks more demanding . empirically , few firms get that right : america ’s national public radio , and the bbc have both recently hacked the sea , whereas mcdonald ’s and burger king have recently compromised on their twitter accounts . a lawsuit regarding the losses stemming from a hoaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles .
the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our consciousness , and at the same time gives us even more cause for concern . by taking advantage of cutting-edge climate models , scientists arrive not only at detecting long-term climate change , but also at least attributing at least some extreme events to human cause . attribution means the capacity to assign the likely causes of an event for human action , or to other factors . several studies published by the end of the year showed that scientists could , in fact , detect prolonged climate changes amid the rising frequency of extreme events such as heat waves , heavy rainfall , severe droughts , and potent storms . the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our consciousness , or signs of deeper , long-term change as well .
the mutual assessment process that the g-20 countries agreed is a crucial component of the rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy are to be identified , assessed , and assembled . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative ; it is the need to work . the international exchange-rate system , after all , is at least partly broken . america can reduce its deficits more quickly than it would in an non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries work together to reduce their excess saving . if it works , what will emerge will emerge will be a commitment from the g-20 countries to undertake policies that benefit globally – on the condition that others stick to their liabilities .
given the power of major tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . but the solutions that are proposed , including by legal scholars such as lyndon khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . in particular , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren , in my opinion , the two strongest contenders vying for the democratic party , ’s ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump , have called for breaking up major tech companies . that approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws have been conceived . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election .
those are adjectives that women everywhere , irrespective of their financial situation or education , deserve to ascribe to themselves . on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother who told me that , thanks to the safety net of her savings group , she was running to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent deaths , and a lingering drought . she had been diversifying her incomes , managing her funding , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . during each of my field ’s visits , i marveled at how those efforts affect women ’s life . the best part was that she described herself as a “ hard-power , demeaning , and ambitious woman . ”
that reality implies another compelling case for investing . as anyone receiving investment statements knows , “ past performance ” is no guarantee of future performance . if you are a prudent and prudent investor contemplate this possibility . instead , investing in such companies turned out to be extraordinarily risky . stock values in the fossil-fuel industries that underpin the presumption that companies will be able to extract and burn all known reserves , will plummet .
after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet implosion , the g2 world gave way to the g1 +n order , in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as america ’s sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was the era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . the american broadly championed that order , the 2003 iraq war had become a clear exception – and , like most countries , benefited disproportionately from globalization and the rise of new complex value chains . democratic and market-based capitalism had ostensibly triumphed of what francis fukuyama called the end of history . it was not until the late 1970s and 1980s that the soviet system could not compete for market capitalism .
russia ’s economy is under severe strain as a result of western sanctions over crimea . instead , after four years of falling real incomes , putin may well decide that it is the time for “ “ remind ” russians that they are under attack . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in poor competition and a downward incentive for private investment and entrepreneurship . with few rallying opportunities , putin may well decide that it ’s time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack . more important , russia ’s ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in poor competition and a waning incentive for private investment and entrepreneurship .
yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress in crafting european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they set out new institutions for doing so ; and , at amsterdam last year , they were ostensibly to strengthen those institutions . the goal of the economic and monetary union ( emu ) and the single currency , adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will become a reality in just two months ( if not more ) . this stands in stark contrast to the other aspects of europe ’s agenda . the target for the economic and monetary union ( emu ) and the single currency , adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a brazen , even revolutionary program ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will become reality in just two months ’ time .
only an explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council may provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except clear self-defense – requires . this last point has come to the heart of trouble in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not – above all at this earlier stage – change the fundamental perception that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond . but broad international support will not come at a time when military operations are perceived as merely some form of western neo-imperialism . this applies to actions that are contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more durable alliances like nato .
to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; on the contrary , it is determined to fight it until the end . meanwhile , civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian disaster . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is an obvious predictable result . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; but it is determined to fight it until the end . indeed , bosnia-herzegovina can no longer be ruled out , whereas the prospect of the syrian government imposing its own chemical weapons constitutes an imminent threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is growing in importance . today , government budgeting allocations are among the leading sources of media revenues . governments have played a major role in domestic media for decades , using regulation of broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape markets . yet , over the last few years , governments have stepped up their budgetary clout as well . unfortunately , while this windfall may be placing more new programming on the air , it only deepens the industry ’s woes .
with its establishment , stemming from its long and terrifying experience , the fundamental notion of modernity , that the power of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of law , thus placing individual rights above national sovereignty , has taken a big step forward . at the same time , this development has been anything but accidental . finally , the same developments in politics and international law have led to the establishment of the international criminal court of justice ( icc ) . as a result , international law has emerged to recognize the “ right of defense ” against governmental arbitrariness and to states ’ crimes against their own peoples , even when the enforcement process remains fairly precarious . the next big step has been the emerging concept of post-conflict humanitarian intervention in rwanda and the khmer rouge wars in the 1990 ’s .
the winner , the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome , was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in turning up a prisoner ’s dilemma . according to the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with cooperation : if another player behaves cooperatively , so should you . of course , when the latter player cooperates , it might be tempted to defect , to increase your own payoff , and potentially even ensure a windfall . only if the other player ’s defects can do that , start displaying non-cooperative behavior .
notwithstanding the rhetoric of “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . unfortunately , the economic trajectory that congress seems plotting , even though it may well boost growth in the short term , ultimately runs a collision course with both equity and sustainability . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india has badly misfired . as for the threat from the right , anyone hoping for peace in the region and stoking tensions within india among its religious communities is relief from the defeat of the hindu nationalist janata party ( bjp ) . the majority of the world ’s malnourished children live in india .
and , indeed , one can not deny that friedman ’s cure has proven an inadequate response to the great recession , strongly implying that it has fallen similarly short of efforts during the great depression . admitting that a monetarist cure was inadequate would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . in that case , contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman to apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a massive scale to solve the problems presented by the great recession . friedman ’s dominance of thought early in the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the simple fact that the science of economics was all too often tainted by politics . but it is fairly obvious that , even during the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence to support friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . on one hand , it has been europe ’s protection of the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-led economy , from its speculative attacks and the chaos of currency volatility . on the other side , the other side has exposed the other side of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of intra-european economic or financial unification . germany ’s pre-crisis actions so far have been an unavoidable result .
if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the self-determination referendum that was promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with the calamitous impact on peoples in sudan and across the region , is a genuine possibility . put differently , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the objective of destabilizing the predominantly christian south . sudan ’s commitment to the tribunal has always been equivocal . after all , the regime ’s repressive nature in khartoum is at the root of many conflicts that have torn the country . indeed , since the end of the 2005 civil war , sudan ’s people of the people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently had to confront the militias that operate as government ’s proxies .
one approach is to capture co2 at power plants as coal - or even gas . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a massive scale . another is to capture it directly from the air used specially designed chemical processes . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 ; but there are only a few other places in a world in which it can be scaled up without large environmental or social costs . ) the other solution is to capture co2 emissions by underground money .
figures released recently by the new york times attorney general andrés manuel cuomo indicate that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation above the $ 600 billion they experienced in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . one set of concerns does occur from shareholder perspective . broadly speaking , figures released by the new york fed , andhra cuomo , a report that nine large financial firms paid for their employees ’ aggregate compensation above the $ 600 billion mark in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . such patterns can arouse worries among shareholders , who pay structures are not well positioned to serve their own interests . distinguishing between two sources of concern about pay in financial firms is important .
but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republican lawmakers overwhelmingly opposed her . consider the question of “ bump stocks , ” ” ” ” ” gun modification , which the perpetrator of the las vegas massacre used plans to fire more quickly . such even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” manufactured even-handedness is an tantamount to being called a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly in charge . now , some republican senators have been attracting praise for indicating that they will endorse the facility ’s prohibition .
by 2000 , that share had plummeted to around 22 % ; by 2010 , it had risen to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education , all of which is a major factor of social advancement . as a result , demands for more opportunities , and improved quality conditions have grown louder . today , chile is very different from chile in 20 years ago . with the 29 % population that left poverty behind , now is the incipient middle class , with new ambitions and goals .
true , clinton offers numerous programs that she would push as president ; but to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme in her pudding . clinton is the only person known to have started her campaign twice , if not more . success in american presidential politics requires superb intuitions , being fast on one ’s legs , and above all a compelling rationale for running in the us . ( the first attempt , in iowa , to discuss about eight people in closed meetings , did n’t work very well . ) this spectacular , remarkably intelligent woman just does n’t have the sense of politics that she is demanding at the top .
using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund has tried to persuade investors that eurozone debt has been solid as rock . only a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , senior staff tell anyone who would listen that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . never mind the apparent flaw in the fund ’s rationale , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and bear risks far more like emerging markets than truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . as the situation worsened , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs to market , as they were , adopting a more cautious tone . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not severe , owing to anticipated growth and reform .
another alternative , supported by a huge and growing body of policy research in economics and psychology , is to track ways that people deploy their time and attach wellbeing measures to each . surveys of reported well-being are now available to many countries , and the idea of cutting in getting this as the metric of prosperity has powerful advocates . but this choice has several drawbacks , including the fact that wellbeing indicators are changing little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show a six or seven score on a 0-10 scale . one way to make such indices more directly relevant to policy would be to track the ways people use their time and attach wellbeing measures to each .
these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services got risky behavior in the city at the norm . her “ big bang ” of 1986 policies triggered an upward spiral in home prices that encouraged households to take on more , more debt . the shift toward finance , which thatcher promoted heightened inequality , made the economy more volatile . if that is her metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy advice – especially those pertaining to the advanced economies , has little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff as well as its unique connections to countries . but its forward-looking analyses have too often proved backward-looking , and its quantitative projections have been consistently subject to significant revisions . yes , it has made significant strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it bravely taken the lead in shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change .
indeed , the predominant view among arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that islam confines all arab women essentially to the same extent when in reality they experience very different conditions . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important key to understanding of the arab world today and , as it will be tomorrow . and , sadly , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilism that derives from islamic norms , which obscures the knowledge of the real changes involved . this prevents too many from seeing , much less assessment , the profound changes taking place in arab societies , and how women drive these changes forward . this is particularly indispensable because the situation for women is one of the major benchmarks that the outside world , and particularly the west , uses the assessment of the arab world .
riesman ’s framework has had special resonance in the arab world today , where rising rates of literacy and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred the maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three kinds of competition to define the region ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , by contrast , the religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . ironically , it is the combination of enhanced literacy and advanced technology that is fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” reformers ” ” ” ” ” ” – religious revivalists and “ western-oriented modernizers . taking up their power in massachusetts and instantly spreading ancient religious texts and in the western-originating literature , the two camps battle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . in the lone mob , the american sociologist david riesman identifies three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look for inherited rituals , morals , and ltransformation values ; states , which behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences .
china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed appealing to many other developing countries , particularly during the eruption of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and thus seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism . indeed , china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . until recently , there was little or no further reason to question such a question . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or higher , for more than three decades . hundreds of millions of chinese entered the middle class as well .
furthermore , there is a powerful case for improving american national security if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america helped their countries prosper , rather than try to keep them as poor as long as possible . there are good reasons why america adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . there are good reasons why america ’s adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in helping mexico , the us , china , and other developing countries grow , america is getting richer in trade partners . then the american establishment of permanent normal trade relationships with china , refusing to brand its government as a currency manipulator .
as is often the case in europe , the differences among member states are pronounced : the share of monetary transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . there is one more fundamental problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want it . but it is an open question whether the eu ’s still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than the firms that offer payment solutions . according to as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; by contrast , more than half of all payments are created in cash . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains powerful – and has become stronger .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup in which he denounced general mohamed hussein tantawi , the army ’s leader , did not seem to have diminished the significance of the problem there . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed the egyptian army ’s base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . one vehicle failed to break through the border crossing ; another penetrated israeli territory , before being halted by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . tel aviv , a crisis in the sinai peninsula , appears to have dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo .
but they also know that bilateralism , small countries attempting to negotiate on equal terms with their superpowers , is not an option . cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system is having problems , including incomplete or obsolete regulations that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but , because countries largely rely on active diplomacy and soft power , have everything to lose from a prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . a commitment to multilateralism is no analysis of the status quo . to defend their interests , they need to ensure that global trade is subjected to objective mechanisms .
finally , some african “ sdg 16 ” champions make the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . ghana and benin , meanwhile , emphasize budget spending , which has a top-level sdg 16 , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financing priorities align with its stated commitments under this goal . grassroots assessment of progress toward these indicators aims to complement a government-led report mechanism . in kenya , all public-sector officials on sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obligated to sign performance contracts with a central government in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , and explain how these are integrated into policy and development plans . moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments deploy new national sdg 16 data in their everyday decisions .
i can easily envision alternatives such as communist victories in post-world war ii europe ’s elections in italy and france that would have impoverished nations now in their wealthy north . but the alternatives that would have made the south richer at the price of diminishing the north ’s wealth would have required a wholesale revolution of human psychology . on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s major political-economic problems . it is hard , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any major fraction of today ’s riches to today ’s impoverished peoples . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 rather than in 1976 .
repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . nml capital and the other vultures comprise just 1 % of the lenders , but would receive a total of $ 1.5 trillion . every argentine ( 6.6 % of total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion . every argentine might thus owe upwards of $ 3,500 , more than one-third of the average annual per capita income . and , because of the debt restructuring stipulated by all of the country ’s creditors , but would actually get an additional $ 1.5 trillion .
new york – the major international financial institutions , the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the world development bank are being forced to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . it will be essential , after bali , to reflect gravely on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . until we reverse the downward trend of multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . the un ’s authority has frayed . business can moan internet and a media may carp back , but the response from many of the world ’s great issues is more – or at least better – governmental , not less .
economists and moralists were united in believing that one should actually spend less than you earn , seeking to “ save ” ” ” for an proverbial rainy day , or an old age . indeed , there was often more to be honored by the point of honor : defaulting against the debt on time had landed the borrower in jail . the same attitude , guided by institutional debt , was governed by the same attitude toward institutional debt . economists and moralists were united in believing that you should actually spend less than you earn , seeking to “ save ” ” for the proverbial rainy day , or “ old age . ” and , if a person became indebted , that point was honor to repay the obligation once it collapsed , through asset sale , consumption spending reductions , working harder , or some combination of the three .
geopolitically , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . though china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping in 1989 , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , including china and india , was able to pursue capitalist policies overtly . more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism at the end of 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . that example , in turn , had a constructive impact on their survival in asia and beyond . the soviet union ’s sudden meltdown was a strategic pits with asia , eliminating a sinister empire , and opening the way for china to pursue its interests globally .
in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned in the party by saying that doing so would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively and have promised that he would respect minority rights . similarly , rather than condemn the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , has remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority point of view , they exert considerable influence , and are likely to believe that they act in the interests of the majority . developments following the arab spring might provide some indication about the prospect of religious tolerance . yet subsequent actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise concerns about such early positive steps .
today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably deng xiaoping and others from the party elders know that formal reevaluation is only a matter of time . that group will unite to the forces of democratization both at home and abroad to establish a truly democratic system . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been split over the event ever since . fourth , reversal of the verdict on june 4th is a historic inevitability , just as it is the wish of most of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s people . june 4th , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably deng xiaoping and others of party elders – died .
mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority and allowed financial markets to veto the choice of a minister by an popularly elected government . in particular , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not choose their own inflation-targeting target , or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . these obligations place real limits on the italian authorities ’ external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it also committed specific liabilities in exchange for pursuing its fiscal policy , although these constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . by joining the euro , italy has surrendered monetary sovereignty to outside , with an independent decision-maker , the european central bank .
in the dark , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning exists not for democratic liberalism , but for believers to unite behind the one true faith . what , on the other hand , may a pakistan liberal stand for ? once again , we see how misplaced western national priorities may trigger a breakdown in a non-western nation . what , on the other hand , may a pakistan liberal stand for ? in pakistan , an extremist now wears islamic garb ?
these laws resemble regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which requires that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with a gas and iminsensitive to the pain of their animals when they have their throats cut and are “ bled ” out of ” ” the ” ” side . japan has relatively strict laws that protect the welfare of animals . there are powerful grounds for believing that they should . for starters , most of the mammals must be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and hardship as possible . there are strong grounds for believing that they should .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communication skills , perhaps because he is so different from those of predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a series of sham dences and provocative executive orders undercut one ’s credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known by “ great communicators . ” trump , by contrast , has appealed to the minority that elected him . although the large segments of america ’s population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as the whole , trying to appeal to the center .
indeed , if southern european countries were to keep their own currencies , they might never have dug into as large a debt hole and had the option of partial default via inflation . it is very likely that if , instead of joining the euro , italy and spain had simply given their central banks more autonomy , they , too , would have done very little to bring down inflation today . yes , a few places , like venezuela , still at record-low price growth , but are now rarities . greece is admittedly less conspicuous ; but , considering that many poor african countries have been able to keep inflation well within single digits , one might presume that greece would manage as well . far more fundamental to achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that has helped to drive dramatically lower levels of inflation worldwide .
cohn was seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate votes and wanted to succeed then-fed chair janet yellen as the chair of the american federal reserve . but there can be problems if a us president chooses to understate his chief economic adviser . indeed , one may have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , as cohn did , letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the us president had suddenly sliced in a deal with democratic congressional leaders . cohn had a sin on the need to allow trump to be known publicly that he had nearly resigned in the wake of the violence last month in charlottesville , virginia , when trump equated white supremacist and neo-nazi demonstrators , many of them armed , with those who opposed them .
transparency international , full disclosure of everything from treaties to management of income and the environment , is critical to realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . on may 17 , oxfam america ’s advocacy organization sued american securities and exchange commission to issue pre-existing governance constraints , with political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges . and mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges . yet the risks are just as valid with the potential rewards .
indeed , scores of people flying between accra , lagos , a freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai , or chennai on a everyday basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . links to west africa are near and back over the past century , with nearly 50,000 indians or people of indian origin living in the region . while exit controls are in place in every international airports in affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) means that someone with no symptoms from a recent infection could make that journey to india , without triggering some alarms . recent personal experiences at new delhi ’s airport indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government requires , were loosely enforced , with multiple passengers exiting the terminal holding completed ebola card that was supposed to be handed over to immigration officials . india ’s government appears unlikely to keep tabs on all of the west african arrivals .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has reported that some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any developed country ’s government has ever attempted to do so . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which demonized the national arts endowment . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than science and engineering , which is supposedly a better deal for business . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though this is the first time that battles have migrated so squarely to britain . indeed , his education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s public universities should be gushed by as much as 40 % .
given the recent wave of uprisings , it is all the more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” initiatives , undertaken in the arab world previously , were aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment of criminal abuses of power . when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials were surprised by this view . the reform “ debate ” within these regimes , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect of the crimes currently being committed against libyans , has refused to call the process a “ reconciliation ” against all . when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national conciliatory ” conference , the conflicting statements made by saif al-islam and security officials were by surprise . the director of internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in current crimes against libyans , refused to call for a process of “ reconciliation . ”
if credit expands too fast , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on its deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to the combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expand the quantity of private lending . what if that interest rate were to be 4 % , or even 8 % , or even 8 % ? how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise the interest rate on deposits to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one really knows how that would work in practice .
they tasked the g20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of being able to correct their policies . the nature of financial risk is changing relentlessly in ways that are hard to forecast the use of backward-looking indices , like those being devised by the g-20 . policymakers at the cajing have promised to address this issue . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than they are at preventing the next one . they tasked the g20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal if any country , including the us and china , were compelled to correct its policies .
moreover , obama struggled to suppress hundreds of photos depicting sexual assaults in us-run prisons and did nothing to roll back the patriot act . in addition , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of photos depicting a sexual assault in us-run prisons , and he did nothing to roll back the patriot act . why should obama , a constitutional scholar , beat this path ? second , perhaps he needs to reach an effort to reach out to the guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even to keep them free from trial forever : lawyers claim that torture , including sexual-torture , was so endemic in the cia and the us military that obama can hold scores ; if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes . first , he dare not seem “ soft on terror . ”
experts like hoenig , who thought through the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy , emphasize that it simply would n’t work for the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such issues , and to prevent asset grabbing ” them . so long as the authorities – specifically , the us federal reserve and the fdic – were able to go bankrupt without triggering another “ lehman moment , ” the sort of global panic that brought down days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without causing any other “ lehman moment ” ; on the contrary , they have the legal authority to force the banks to change how they operate , including by curbing their scale and scope . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws that can simultaneously govern such issues , and that prevent asset grabbing .
paris – once again , the central paradox of french politics has been confirmed on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to select local authorities ( the so named conseiller général ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the votes cast 40 % , but secured just 0.1 % of its seats . and , with that change , the fate of the front may be changing as well . in january , however , le pen was replaced by her no less charismatic daughter , marine . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strengths and its true representation has become a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago .
for example , australia has provided $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 more people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 who can receive tb treatment , seven million who are left treatment , malaria treatment , and 14 million bed nets that must be delivered to families in need . the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children throughout africa and asia , the heroic bargains that are supposed to make donor countries ’ citizens proud . i am convinced that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make , because so many governments have come to understand from the start . with technical support like the idea , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system that will be fully funded with domestic funds by 2019 . the united states has just been the global fund ’s largest advocate , but many others have done its part .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers to around the world – can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundations on effective development spending . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal aid to aid , but the average american believes that this figure is thirty-one-times higher . the united kingdom ’s ’s largest-circulation sunday paper recently launched a petition calling for the end of ring-fenced aid spending ( equal to 0.7 % of national income ) . and these lessons are especially relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus exclusively on domestic issues , and that allow recipient countries to solve problems the best they can do ( opposition to aids is even higher in france , poland , slovakia , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ aid ” ” foreign aid ” by the countries that hate the us , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” reflecting a widespread conviction that aid must be cut .
india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and it needs to rely on iran for access . second , further isolation of iran will make it far more difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is being convulsed by its military disengagement from afghanistan and trying to cut deals with the taliban . as a result , america ’s effort to send the international influence over its new sanctions act constitute a double whammy for india . first , it risks derailing india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar that have been able to navigate the arab spring . but the former has since fallen prey to a long american preoccupation , with the latter facing a us-led oil-export embargo intended to throttle it financially .
this opens up the possibility that america ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions requiring that are backed by an overwhelming 85 % of imf members ’ votes . to secure us backing , a congressional committee could commit not to consider any draft resolution requiring 85 % backing without america ’s ’s ’s consent . that guarantee could be incorporated into the resolution dividing the reform package into two components . the key obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of congressional approval to raise america ’s ’s quota share . it would remain valid as long as the us congressional approval was mandated to raise its quota , restoring its voting share .
the case for openness , inclusiveness , and diversity in european societies has become much harder to make . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the pressure of right-wing populist parties that no longer had to address with the defensive . but , with almost six months to the north african strife , the number of arrivals on italy ’s southern island of lampedusa has gone above 30,000 . italian officials privately certify that current figures are not unmanageable . the problem for italian officials , as for the rest of italy ’s population , has accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 .
in the united states , its 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , according to the same oecd forecasts , will total 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus , as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . moreover , germany has far more intra-state stability than america , owing to its failure to address the problem of heavily indebted households that today are restricted in its borrowing . as a result , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . furthermore , germany has far more inner stability than the american people , owing to its inability to address the problem of the heavily indebted households that are now locked in their borrowing needs . the german state has recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , shifting to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 .
in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , even though goldman sachs had radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term , the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 , for that debate . that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , as each member proclaimed its desire to unseat the us dollar as the global reserve currency . a few months earlier , the four were moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . but catchy ideas die hard , and russia moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality . that meeting produced the notable broadside against the united states , with each member declaring its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out the cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , even though luck also played a role . after all , the cold war ’s victory was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose push to reform the soviet union had hastened its collapse . advocating supply-side economics for the white working class , he convinced millions that “ less government ” meant cutting off federal programs , including in the education system , would have brought a “ morning up ” in america . reagan ’s strategic defense initiative , intended to end a nuclear-deterrence strategy known as mutual assured destruction , was in fact nicknamed “ star wars ” in america . its strategic defense initiative , intended to end a nuclear-deterrence strategy known as the mutually assured destruction , was in fact nicknamed “ star wars . ”
experts would remind us that kazakhstan had never been one country , and that ukrainian claims about independence were historically dubious . as with china today , there would have been some feeble international condemnation so far , and some speculation about the possible linkages between kazakh militants and exiled groups or islamic fundamentalists . warsaw , had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , the riots and death that it was recently seen in xinjiang could have played into russia . rather than hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we may have been reading about hundreds , killed in the streets of almaty , and columnists to create comparisons to the bloodstained ukrainian independence demonstrations in lebanon earlier this year . substitute for kazakhstan and tibet to ukraine , you get an image .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans established to create new currency trading platforms in a number of european financial centers . so , why has the imf flip side ? the answer is obvious : china has mounted a full-court press to alter think . in august , the currency , an exchange-rate regime was pegged to the us dollar slightly , at best . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would have been with a negative decision .
the overall trade deficit is a direct result of saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . but foreign import barriers and us exports subsidies are hardly the reason for america ’s trade deficit . the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . foreign governments ’ policies influence only how that deficit is divided among america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trading partners . the reason that americans ’ ’ ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall us trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of its total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
yet , rather than recognizing the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi has discussed going even further , to move india toward an entirely “ cashless society . ” judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it appears obvious that no impact study had ever been considered . but the truth is that its design had been fundamentally flawed . many modi supporters proclaim that demonetization policy is a consequence of inept performance . there has been no “ policy skeleton , ” ” no cost-benefit analysis , and none of the evidence considered an alternative policy option .
in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – notorious for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in march 2014 – inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists , orchestrating attacks on a museum and a beach resort . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab has carried out two major attacks , on nairobi ’s westminster shopping mall in 2013 , and the university of garissa in 2015 as well as the many smaller acts of terror . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , the shooter belonging to al qaeda affiliate the radisson blu hotel in bamako . washington , dc , terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa .
so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are growing . indeed , with the royals ’ ratio of commoners to commoners now home on either 1,000 ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privileges , pay packages , and job demand has never been more acute . royal perks include lifetime sinecures and domination over the civic service , enabling the princes to award contracts and to receive poor-quality commissions . that is no longer true of the many thousands of princes they produced . as the elder generation dies off , the new generation fell to struggle ahead with customers .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to service our debts ? ” as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion were mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , health , and clean water provision . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like the dark cloud over somalia as well . over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , health , and clean water provision .
whether a correction in risky assets is temporary , or starting a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will actually exit from qe as soon as it signaled in the us . there is a strong likelihood that weaker us growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal from support for liquidity . brazil and other countries that have been complaining about “ hot money ” ” from inflows and “ currency wars ” have suddenly come to know what they want : the likely premature end of the fed ’s qe . the repercussions , the sharp capital-flow reversals that accompany all of the risky emerging-market assets , have not been pretty .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . increasingly , california has been exercising such constitutional rights on its own . berkeley – since late 2014 – the us has been advocating a “ american governance model ” based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution , which states that , “ the powers not delegated to the united states through the constitution , or prohibited by it by states , are reserved for states respectively , or for people ” – or for individuals ” . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
europe is slipping back into a recession just when recovery in the united states finally seems to be regaining some traction , which has undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is so much favored in europe . still , i have taken away a very different conclusion from the davos this year . with the exception of a japanese participant , all experienced firsthand with the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction , having undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is favored so badly in europe . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into a european debate .
we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that will damage food supplies and the quality of the planet ’s life . great scientific thinking has learned over the course of many decades to “ read ” ” earth ’s history with a view to understanding how the climate system works . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . indeed , the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a critical message , and we think so far that we all know what we call “ climate action . ” they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s ’s systems ) to advance our understanding of it .
others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , however unrealistic that appears to be . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that the americans chafe at constraints on their ability to take advantage of america 's military hegemony . because europeans are militarily irrelevant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans stress diplomacy rather than military might to resolve disputes . indeed , some commentators have started pointing to america 's different views and europe on the role of international law , in contrast to the use of force in resolving disputes . some integration advocates view a united europe that is powerful .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees aimed at securing equal security across europe . as a result , europeans need to revisit their current security arrangements , instead of analyzing what happened and taking into account this analysis in reforming those arrangements . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in launching such a project . even before the georgian crisis , russia already saw a need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions , and its function .
white supremacists held a rally in protest against the planned removal by the public park of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a counterprotest was organized , with street fighting splintered . that question raised the level of tragic incidents in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . a woman , hecyer , was killed , and 19 people injured when james fields , a white nationalist , drove her car at high speeds in a crowd of counter-protesters . princeton , should rallies by neo-nazis and whites be satisfied with the violence ?
chinese officials recruited stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for the assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 public-works budget . in fact , china ’s modest experimentation with local elections has been supplemented with exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” and wen has indicated that village elections could be expanded to the country ’s next highest government level , township administrations , over the coming years . china ’s modest experimentation with local elections has been complemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” the zeguo exercise was considered enormously successful and was replicated elsewhere in china .
eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and ensure food and livelihoods for billions of people . european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a track record of illicit fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped foster “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . the eu , japan , and the us would become even more efficient if they aligned their policies in order to prevent criminals from accessing their markets and allowed legitimate agents to reap the benefits of a “ supercharged ” level of access . working together might enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability , data , and intelligence gathering to help pinpoint precisely where seafood originated , and when and where it was captured . such efforts , such as the bluef-documentation scheme for the atlantic bluefin tuna catch , represent one of the most effective tools to eliminate illicit fishing .
but a recent oxford university symposium concludes that emerging-market cities could improve and preserve urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from the opportunities for innovation wrought by physical concentration of people and economic activity . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters such as floods and mudslides that devastated segments of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help to create the fragile surroundings that spawn a physical concentration of people and economic activity . but the urban poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood illnesses , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental impairment .
our achievements in myrna mack matter are notable , but achieving them proved difficult : the police investigator was assassinated ; the judges were threatened ; and the witnesses went out of exile . that was followed by the june 2001 court ’s decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last for the evidence against these individuals . i have been harassed , and the campaigns to disband me organized . the courts ’ acts represent guatemala ’s first-ever effort to bring high military officials to trial . regrettably , the trial has backfired indefinitely , because defendants have appealed the case .
the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has made this starkly apparent in october 2018 , reinforcing the point last month with its report on climate change and land . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , along with regions and cities , have now formally recognized the scale of the crisis . that certainly did not happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we face a climate emergency that calls for radical and urgent action .
it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but it no longer has the clout or power to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or in part because of the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with its closest historical and cultural links with russia lies at the bottom of the political cycle . mediating between a variety of regimes and a search beyond the current incarnation of other countries was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is exactly in tune with france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gaullist tradition . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and italy , spain and poland locked in seemingly principal actors , the conclusion is pretty simple : partly through default and partly through the sheer power and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules , along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as an interim expedient but as an enduring feature of the global economy . so they contemplated only a “ lean ” globalization with capital inflows that had been restricted mostly to long-term lending and borrowing . they understood that a democratic country would need space to behave in an independent monetary and fiscal policy . the bretton woods-era bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s because of an inability or unwillingness to resolve it fully decisively , it is not exactly clear that leading governments around the world to manage the rising tide of capital inflows . the third path , identified with the trilemma , is to do away with national sovereignty altogether .
moreover , because states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the increasing importance of internet entanglement in their own economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations of the utility of cyberwarfare may change . over time , however , better attribution forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine-learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be hard to maintain . because technological innovation exists faster than in the nuclear domain , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal fears of surprise . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the increasing importance of internet entanglement in their own economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations of the utility of cyberwarfare may change .
the georgia conflict followed a sharp drop in investor confidence . likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto a deal proposed by un secretary general kofi annan , a former finnish president , martii ahtisaari . in georgia , russia now needs to ask itself about the relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity . even then , we agreed with another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone has been left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . by contrast , in georgia , russia moved from supporting kosovo ’s territorial integrity to cracking down on the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to deliver .
fracturing the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide . finally , trump ’s jcpoa ruling demonstrates once again that europe relies far too heavily on america for its security and prosperity . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of faith in the postwar rules-based international order . more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close down the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . the democracies that structure embody values antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests .
knowledge-based organizations develop a broad spectrum of network alliances with media , and are playing an important role in influencing public opinion as much as diplomacy does . indeed , knowledge-based institutions are better equipped to capitalize on the expanding global informational infrastructure to influence diplomacy . indeed , in the environmental field , new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly to use in programs that certify sustainable sourcing as it is in the case of forest and fisheries . in the environment , new institutions emerge that target their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , especially to apply in programs that certify sustainable resource use as they have on forest and fisheries . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to harness the expanding global informational infrastructure to influence diplomacy .
to be sure , a grand coalition government , comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) , has emerged . but it took more than five months for the parties to make a deal , and the largest opposition party now has the far-right alternative for germany . even germany has , to some degree , fallen prey to populist forces . nor was the potent showing by populist parties in italy in this month ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s election in italy , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . in a country that seemed to have inoculated against populism by its nazi history , this was a particularly distressing development .
likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers ’s political and electoral reforms . yet curtailing democracy in order to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea , either . its reluctance is understandable , for voters are evenly divided on the issue , and nobody is investing one cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently enacted constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will occur . reelection is permitted only for a candidate nominated by the same party for which they originally ran , with the permitting legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remains unclear . most importantly , the government seems backtracking on a commitment to enabling a binding referendum on opening up the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues .
perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that advanced-country central banks had relied on it had paid insufficient attention to asset-price bubbles . but that escape clause proved inadequate : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that us monetary policy had been overly loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , neither preceded nor followed by an upsurge of inflation . that boom-and-bust cycle could have occurred without inflation , should have come as a surprise . central bankers had been telling themselves that they had been lending asset markets all the more attention they deserve , by specifying that the prices of housing and equity may have been receiving from the levels implied by information concerning goods inflation . regardless of the shape it took , it began to receive some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990s ) .
that fine is $ 2,000 per employee , far less than the current average employer-provided employer-provided family premium . but even for full-time employees , firms can opt for a relatively small working week to pay less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its employees have the incomes that entitle them to a government subsidy ( which is now available to anyone whose income is below four times that of poverty ) . rather than incur the approved policy premium , a smart employer can pay the fine not for insurance and increase employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash after purchasing a subsidized insurance policy . employers can evade the mandate by reducing the employee ’s take-home pay week to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time hiring ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook , and clare short , want their own revenge , and thus continue attacking blair for his statements . so far , blair has proved his resilience to such charges . but does the uncertainties currently dogged blair like vulture now smell the appetizingly fidious scent of a lie ? indeed , he has gone on a counter-attack , notably against the bbc , which did not explicitly endorse the war with enthusiasm . or is the question of a prime minister losing confidence in his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
here , america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it normally rebukes as the chronic human-rights violators - cuba , chile , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . on the anti-torture protocol , the u.s. sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to detention places as part of an optional protocol to the convention against torture . indeed , it adamantly opposed several notable and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and the new anti-torture mechanism . increasingly obsessing about the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america over the last few years has contributed to the widespread erosion of the un human-rights monitoring system . yet , without american backing , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed in late july by the un economic and social council .
what needs to be done is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as europe ’s leader . just as britain once led europe in fighting fascism , promoting democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the global recession of 2008 , it should find itself inside europe leading from below to give rise . britain that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should have been prepared once again to lead a progressive movement , spearheading combat climate change , resist protectionism , and fostering sustainable growth . nor will it be sufficient to recall the historic benefits of engagement , and of britain ’s distinguished historical role in ensuring that no country can ever gain sole mastery in europe . it must lead in mobilizing europeans to make the global economy work for the people , to protect them from unfairness and inequity .
the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airlines to foods suppliers . if a company sells you a car that , say , lacks a proper test service , resulting in injury , the company pays a price . when it comes to facebook , its users are not only passive consumers , given the company ’s traffics in their data . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired grocery simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” yet the expectation of a reasonable consumer protection system is built into our economies .
the implicit model is that of a “ guest worker ” ” who arrives and follows through ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from the poorer parts of europe remain in their destination countries , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . so what is to be done ? temporary residency status , in europe or outside , would make sense if the rapid return to normalcy in refugees ’ countries of origin a realistic prospect . they can be delivered “ humanitarian protection ” or “ discretionary leave ” to remain ” for short periods ; but then they can be deported as illegal migrants . the asylum system is superficially ill-suited to deal with a new generation of refugees ineligible under the current framework because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states .
in her brief lifetime , she was often lauded for traits ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her workplace ’s work and derided for other aspects of her own character ( her emotionality and the chaotic personal life ) that were just beside the point . as a result , few people noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative her agenda was , how well she reflected , and how audaciously she tried to manage it . princess di ’s legacy in generating the iconography that has opened the way for a tremendous advance of social modification is grossly underappreciated . in other words , ms. obama runs for the establishment of herself , unprecedentedly up like the “ people ’s first lady . ” she carefully studied not only the jackie kennedy – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and a page-boy haircut , but also the triumphs and failures of other glamorous but understealth radical , princess diana .
the notion of the “ people ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank financing to populists – receives more attention from both sides of the political spectrum . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently mooted could ; if not well intended , they heightened the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus further compound central bankers ’ challenge . the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s ’s ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-run consequence of governments ’ short-term impact on the global growth of governments ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ trade weaponization of trade tariffs is complicating the task for the fed and the ecb alike . instead , both are busy designing another round of stimulus that will involve even more political and policy risks . other risks are already giving central bankers headaches .
clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as weapons against government parties in 1999 . he resigned only after winning elections to the parliament . in the end , nevertheless , his election represented significant progress . indeed , many opposition groups engaged in dirty tricks . he himself presided over many violations , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been genuinely impressive . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
its combined gdp has grown from $ 95 trillion in 1970 to more than $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings , hosted by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . yet asean ’s long-term progress remains undeniable . over the short term , it seems to be moving like a crab , two steps forward , one step backward , and one step sideways . asean continues to face major challenges .
much of modern economic and financial theory abounds with the assumption that people are rational , and therefore that they systematically maximize happiness or , as economists call it , their “ utility ” ” ” . as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in brazil . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on some physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but only on the premise of rationality . when samuelson takes up the theme in his 1947 book , neither looked in the brain , but relied instead on “ revealed ” preference . people ’s goals are exposed only by observing their own economic activities .
central-bank balance sheets have expanded and policy rates have reached their “ near zero ” level . but policymakers have one more option : the shift to a “ purer 1 ” fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money , a so-called “ helicopter drop . ” the new money would bypass financial and corporate sectors , and go straight to the thirstiest horse : center – and lower-income consumers . with no signs of rising inflation and growth , it remains tepid and brittle , many predict chronic slow growth , with some even fearing yet another global recession . there is enough cheap water that seems to be wasted .
alarmed by the public reaction , the harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened , only to face the suspended ’s phrase , confirmed when the case was concluded this march . this quickly became the “ rich versus the poor ” narrative , widely cited as the most recent high level of corruption . over the next few months , newspapers and television networks ran into this narrative as scammed into a national obsessions . this case went to the local trial , where the judge ruled it “ an accidental traffic disturbance ” and handed the driver a two-year , suspended sentence . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he had gone easy on it , because her husband was related by senior provincial officials .
but these countries ’ rising middle classes began to shift their political systems in yet another direction , a testament to the power that they now wield . repeated military interventions by the large muslim peoples , egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey , undermined orderly political developments . with over half of these countries ’ populations out of age 30 , political developments there have been a way forward , despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at the mid – to top twenties . that power increased for several reasons , the most fundamental among them demographic .
though latin america ’s economies today are doing well through reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . third on the panel ’s list consists of increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance . the rules need to place the burden on deficits , spending , and debt , and then require transparency in a way that the public knows what to do . the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the capacity of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . if matched by a genuine commitment to designing fiscal credibility , countries could improve their economic growth substantially .
a new report by the pathways for prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , based at the oxford university of blavatnik school of government , indicates how countries can deal with this problem . second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure they need for sustained success and avoiding the allure of the most up-to-date innovations . this has given rise to many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact on scale . the report urges them to establish a foundation of “ digital-building blocs ” – including crucial infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services . too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies , “ distribute tablets ” to schoolchildren !
but , overall , there is a tough time to deny that the global economy lacks the momentum . this is partly because trees can not continue to grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to contract by up to 10 % the size of each year . but many countries are still poor enough to be endowed with strong growth potential , and many others , though wealthy , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . and , in part , this is because growth is n’t unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off with a bit less of it and a more clean air . so there must be anything else that maintains growth .
despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , the red shirts have grown in a number , demonstrating monthly charges against abhisit ’s government . and , again in april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised red-shirts in bangkok ’s streets to demand for fresh elections , but they were diffuse through the military , with their 91 fatalities . use of the anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a live violent border dispute with cambodia ) , royalist-conservative movements implicitly emphasize an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff . pad ringleaders now denounce all politicians as corrupt and extol the virtue of the hindu monarchy . and , after two years of april-may , the disenfranchised red shirts in bangkok ’s streets to demand a new election , royalist-conservative movement implicitly signify an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled devices will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . industry analysts predict that ai will power growth in the coming years and decades . in any tech transition , those at the forefront of change may not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things even the smartest machines ever will do . some estimates indicate that us firms can save as little as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and the benefits to firms go well beyond saving , because automation will spur innovation , improve forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to improved customer service .
but , while some ideas are intuitive or apparent , they can be both wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , it is not what you do n’t really know , but what you mistakenly think you know is one that hurts you . they should make a few things very well , and just exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thus exploiting the gains from trade . because they can not be good at everything , they must focus on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . and the notion that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that is why they should specialize is one of those very bad , dangerous ideas .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . europe would be incomparably better off had germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off similarly . the trouble is that , at least until after the next election , germany has not been forced to choose . the situation is deteriorating , and , in the longer term , it is bound to become unsustainable . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro .
for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly tempting . but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song , “ people are brothers ; i am celebrating the chinese , ” who are ridiculing ill-fated early attempts at a us-chinese union . after five years of international sanctions imposed by russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but the bilateral relationship has deepened conspicuously lately , exemplified by last week ’s arab forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements that cover areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better terms than ever .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war . after october ’s parliamentary election , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , and opposition voters already see tusk as their only viable candidate . warsaw , donald tusk ’s term as european council president will end on november 30 , which holds perfect timing for the polish opposition .
you do n’t particularly want to lend to them every day , but if someone is willing to make a payment , say , $ 200 to rent them for a dinner party , then the trouble might well be worthwhile . and if you do n’t want to pay , rezz.it would help you pick up without feeling like a cheapskate . so you can set a very high price to compensate unlucky and make money on your side . or you can have a bundle of under-used dining room chair . and you can post the prices of a variety of times : $ 20,000 to rent my home in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 each time .
but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump could throw a wrench into that process . following high-level negotiations between chinese vice premier liu he and america ’s trade representative , robert lighthizer this month , outstanding issues should be agreed in beijing in early november . i am one of the few commentators that arguing for all year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests are making agreement more likely than not . fifth , the two sides should consider the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in santiago as the latest chance to sign an agreement . fifth , both sides should consider the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in santiago as the latest chance of signing an agreement .
we understand strategic autonomy as the capacity to set one ’s own priorities and make one ’s own decisions on foreign-policy and security issues coupled with institutional , political , and material means for realizing such choices , either in partnership with the third party or on its own when they need arise . at the same time , we analyzed the likely constraints , hardship , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to follow through on this goal . yet the two concepts are often used interchangeably , and are rarely defined at all times . european institutions , like germany , tend to prefer a degree of “ strategic autonomy , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while france favors a conception of “ european sovereignty . in attempting to clarify issues , my colleagues and i have recently proposed an operationalized definition of european strategic autonomy .
in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation soared by a record-high 60 % . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages with communities in the quest for a majority in order to provide the support of a deeply impoverished rural population . in fact , poppy crops eradication not only harm the local community and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it also fails : opium production last year stood at an all-time high . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys a single crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate , by serving as the main source of income to millions of people . as a way to address this dilemma , a senlis council proposes to run science pilot projects to bring together scientific pilot projects to research an opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be a key component of the process of economic reconstruction .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including the majority of their religious leaders , want only to live up to the peace , and to lay the groundwork for the long humiliation of islam , which only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make that possible . the concept of preemptive war is poised to incite just that : the clash of civilizations envisioned ten years ago , and that must be avoided . the muslim faith counts a billion men and women worldwide among their adherents . but the bush administration scares the us as well . its five percent declared war on our civilization , and it is prepared to engage in killings to inject an end to western domination .
nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has actually committed germany ( and other northern european ) taxpayers without their parliaments ’ approval , the potential obligation to bail out – well , whom – exactly ? indeed , it would seem that a typical northern european taxpayer support a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are inadequately exposed to – or not at all – southern european borrowers . but blindly sticking to principle would have been a highly risky option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting what used to be called “ redenomination risk ” in 2012 , economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s activities as incompatible with european treaties banning bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debts .
such a partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran that is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . trump has also signaled his interest in cooperating with russia to remove isis , apparently oblivious to the fact that russia ’s complicity in syria has been focused on propping up assad ’s regime . by equating the struggle against isis with the struggle against the soviet union , trump elevates terrorist organizations to the status of great powers . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more accurate than actually plays into isis , once again playing into the hands of isis recruiters . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air outposts to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin about bringing an end to civil war .
in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( by 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact . and the status quo is in urgent need of change . as it stands , europe ’s economic output per capita remains well below its 2008 level . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans want a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and improved public services ( especially for health care and education ) , but also that they are ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protections , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of the 16,000 survey reported that they would favor change toward the status quo , even if this required some sacrifices .
colombo , sri lanka , was deservedly praised for the progress that had been made since the end of the fighting against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the government will need to establish priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but this is particularly the case for a country that has suffered an intense 30-year civil war . underlying wars like the struggle with the tamil tigers are , typically , social and economic grievances like real or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address the wealth and income disparities adequately .
very few people in the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real knowledge in those days of the vast industrial might of the united states . but any denunciation by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as the support of hitler ’s war effort . the pope believed that it could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither . and the condemnation of nazism might have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . western democracies , it is true that most historians now acknowledge , also played a comparatively minor role in major military struggles .
networked , her effects , and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that petroleum and internal combustion engine have played in the twentieth century . conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-room room appear anywhere , the resulting losses actually extend to the entire network . by its nature , data easily generate physical constraints . data traveling instantaneously worldwide are indifferent to national boundaries .
but , as their experience reveals -- together with experiences in many others like south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization hardly ever has a factor in stimulating higher growth and expanding business early on . meanwhile , serious trade reform failed to start until 1991-93 . governments in both countries focused on their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . it is good to see the world bank catching up on this simple reality . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both are treated as globalizers by the world bank 's criterion .
i felt a prodigious , restless energy that i was all right to turn off if he wanted to court soon after i began imploding my remarks , taking me into a map of vietnam and asking me to locate the areas of ruin . i felt that the request was a test , one that i was prepared to take because i had put up my maps with me on a forward air-control jet planes . but that was happening in longhand . he suggested that i produce a typed copy , granting me the office of the general itself . he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , questioned only when i was on writing .
at present , these kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . in west africa , for example , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerting to distant farmers . in mongolia , sudan , and ethiopia , local extension services are delivering real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . but that changes slowly , particularly because more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , apps that can collect and share farm information have become increasingly accessible . in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and precision of sms can weather alerts to distant farmers .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the international monetary fund ’s annual meetings and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to “ reverse ” globalization ’s retreat . but the premise is simplistic , at best . to be sure , some effort has been made to grasp the current slowdown . faltering trade is supposed to be an adverse trend that needs to be addressed . the problem lies in the lack of understanding of what has drove trade growth in recent decades .
in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters , first the american , then japan , and now europe . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . if china joins this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would be subject to yet another source of serious instability . that is all the more important in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as the currency anchor may take on even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s . just as china defied the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 , a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion must stay that course today .
at the same time , policymakers and business leaders need to be more responsive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for even the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would be starting from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and bad debt . the american people needs a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading their infrastructure . policymakers , particularly the us congress , need to avoid large mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes , while doing more to promote growth . prolonging the current expansion will require amazon care .
these regular checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and to maintain economic stability . for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ surveillance ” management , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults into each country ’s ’s ’s economic policies , both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . but the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges require a fresh look at this process . that is one of the most important reforms for the fund ’s work over the last 30 years , since the surveillance process was conceived . this june , the imf ’s executive board did precisely that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more focused and efficient .
the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help , which would not be necessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency would restore competitiveness quickly . the creditors relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now largely superseded private-sector lenders . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financing , which would not be necessary for very long , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . second , eurozone members whose path to competitiveness through price recovery and wage contraction is needed too long and grueling , and whose societies risk being rent by the necessary imposition of austerity , must exit the monetary union temporarily . first , a debt conference is needed , with creditors from southern european governments and banks forging part of the debt .
finally , the eu should insist that ukraine ’s authorities halt all politically motivated criminal cases and free up those incarcerated for political crimes . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu . selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration . steps in this direction would vastly improve ukraine ’s government ’s relationships with the eu and the us . this matters , because ukraine has met only partly fulfilled the imf agreements that it signed with the eu in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 .
for many of america ’s security establishment members , putin ’s evident influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and his desire to defy his own critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions look like more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other american leaders . arguing that his drive to improve relations with russia is in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit , invited putin not to visit the white house in the near future . putin just reciprocated with an invitation to trump to the kremlin .
washington , dc – this month , europe ’s citizens will head to opinion polls to elect the 751 members of the european parliament to represent 507 million people . the manner of the electoral campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the run-up to the first supranational political space in europe – indeed , the world – of history . to be sure , the european parliament election delivered a smaller share of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . given the european parliament ’s perceived remoteness and widespread frustration with the european union ’s ’s bureaucracy , its level of involvement and movements toward transnational politics is remarkable . nonetheless , the rate of participation over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout on american congressional elections .
to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as if the fbi ’s head personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants to the garden party . but it is precisely this highly personalized form of policy that the saudi royals adopted with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , this policy , even under their own risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . the bombing , however , was not encased in metal , and the terrorist was the only human being killed . highly personalized politics forms part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s theater that keep the royals firmly in power .
together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to leave the government in 1974 , during the yom kippur war . yet what appealed to the outside world has not always been an asset in the brutal and tumble of israeli politics . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much of the scholar and gentlemen , respectively , to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to be supreme of the greasy pole . to be sure , it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that spoke seven languages , all of them in momiddish . perhaps eshkol was able to say that he spoke ten languages , all with an oxford/cambridge accent .
as a result , southern europe has adopted an economic configuration where its wage , price , and productivity levels have made sense only so long as it has spent € 13 for every € 12 that it earns , with northern europeans financing the missing euro . but whether europe as a whole avoids losing decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , depends on whether southern european governments can rebuild their competitiveness quickly . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend mostly straightforward goods to those in the south who want to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending forces made employers there willing to raise wages fast . the process , by which southern european countries became first-place uncompetitive , was fueled by market price signals – through the incentive those signals created for eu entrepreneurs , and through how business entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out through macroeconomic channels . northern europe , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as it spent less than one euros for every euro that it earned .
though the us maintains a military , technological , financial , and soft-power advantage , china has been steadily catching up , resulting in bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach . after all , america ’s competition between the us and china extends far beyond trade . of course , while trump does n’t spare his allies , his primary target remains china . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology-enabled theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression against the us . a global economic downturn is just the last thing that the world needs at a time when it is already beset with risk , including by potential no-deal brexit and the populist gains in the european parliament elections in may .
competitions between states and localities to attract big employers with taxation and other kinds of subsidies work particularly poorly . they may be answered and periodically revised , merely through an iterative process of strategic interactions between public agencies and private firms . recent high-profile deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have exploded . a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies – for example , regionally targeted employment subsidies and investment in infrastructure – is the powerful contingent nature of success . few policies work off the home shelf , and reliably in diverse settings .
shanghai – china faces the tricky task of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular expansion . if it does that , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than is likely if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth patterns . china has an advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . by contrast , if china performs its sustained , comprehensive demand-side effort can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of financial crisis , and complete its move to a consumption-driven , high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class . naysayers abound , but never mind them .
london – as governments throughout western europe started bailing out the banks and their depositors , eastern europeans were watching nervously for the sake of what a global financial storm would mean for them . if the situation continues until the end of the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries might experience severe banking crises . two countries , hungary and ukraine , have already requested massive support packages . now that the storm has hit , fragile european solidarity bonds are being tested . two countries , hungary and ukraine , have already questioned the big support package .
some health practitioners argue that the specific components of processed foods , notably sugar , are just as addictive as cocaine and heroin . but the big question for health-care professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . sugar , for example , is consistently an ingredient with the highest score on the yale food-addiction scale , which measures people ’s eating cravings . this is an important distinction , because quantity is determined by the user , whereas quality is determined by the industry . the processed food industry reports that “ you need sugar to live . ”
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion doses of polio vaccine treatment to 575 million children in 94 countries . every detail , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver a vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , to the refrigerators and cool boxes needed to keep the vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them could be counted and budgeted . a closely coordinated effort by amongst the private and public sector partners to deliver oral polio vaccine to every child , under the age of five , was the key to success . globally , international agencies and un agencies have been working closely with national governments , reconfiguring the precise needs of massive polio immunization campaigns , focused on reaching hundreds of millions of children . in every country , partners including the un health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un relief agency , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor agencies , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations ( bed nets ) , collectively and carefully planned each immunization campaign .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it has become easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . this has long been russia ’s strategy ; now it is being adopted by the us and china . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of assembling a united front . for example , in 2016 , south and eastern eu member states that relied on chinese investment managed to wrest a joint eu statement on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 may offer defense of the rules-based system .
indeed , it is a key theme in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president olusegun obasanjo ’s high minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . corruption , however , has become one of africa ’s endemic problems . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both economic efficiency and governance will improve . harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this is not happening at all . in fact , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems .
but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . florence , europeans eager to revive the continent ’s process of unification have , until recently , been turning their attention to the founding of the united states . others accepting that federalist principles might bodes well for addressing europe ’s common market problems , the despair that a “ european people ” who could portend this new political structure is missing . in reality , the emergence of america ’s constitution and the birth of the american people offers reason to hope that some of the gravest issues facing europe may one day be resolved . many , however , dismiss america ’s precedent on the ground that today ’s problems are too dissimilar .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked by the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . and that shift would have occurred at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . yet , rather than hold a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating that he is in control , even preening for photos in the tight leather outfit with his favorite motorcycle gang . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , need to keep putin up at night or fail to diffuse with such unabated brutality .
the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegeriii , fled to the borders of khorasan province , and the arab emirates began , with persians adopting arab names and translating it into islam . the mass conversion of islam among persians was the first step toward establishing the former caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all of muslims . at various times , the caliphates stretch into asia , africa , and parts of europe . by 651 , nearly all of the major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the effort by various powers seeking to control or restore the caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , albeit averaging an impressive 4 % , turned out to be driven by a post-crisis recovery and a further rise in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-run factors have been exhausted , and a brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation has begun . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy has been able to achieve 5-6 % annual growth . the russian government ’s unwillingness to combat corruption and bolster the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – and still stable – political equilibrium . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” ” ” ” in russia in the coming years : because oil prices plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , they recovered and stayed with $ 70-80 barrel , russia would return to the stagflation of the 1970s and 1980 ’s .
others , including mainstream economists such as adair turner , former chairman of the uk financial-services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have suggested a “ people ’s qe ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . following this logic , in the uk , labor party has proposed “ people ’s qe ” : whereby the central bank would print money to fund direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . left-wing proponents of the so-called modern monetary theory argue that bigger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no risk of runaway inflation . despite terminology differences , all of these suggestions are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand just when the next slump .
when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often very difficult , owing to many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector choices or actions . there are several uncertainties in both phases , but especially during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . bidders are needed to plan for two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) and a longer phase of operation , when toll revenues accumulate to recover incurred costs and expected returns . most developing countries , i know , spend too little money devising devising good projects . so , let us suppose that a road project is approved , a concession contract is ready , and companies offer it .
many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter lives spans than were previously expected , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will increasingly be at risk of devaluations . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change ; nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction pledges , one might think that a global effort to address climate change is losing steam . besides , there is a clear commercial rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and ratings agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” ” ” ” such as from oil and gas projects that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . nonetheless , to get and hold all governments on board , the low-carbon transition must be inclusive .
more recently , a group of parliamentarians ( quite big ones ) left the majority post-solidarity party and formed the new “ polish family ” party with the motto that the ruling coalition holds in “ the service of brussels . ” to be sure , defend “ family values ” whatever that entails . but here those of us who have been active in the former “ solidarity ” movement – for them a community movement rather than an individual , a movement for the public rather than a private liberty – comprise the new bloc of euro-antagonists . in practice , that movement also has incentives elsewhere to change . a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a bias that struggles for old values like honor and virtue .
researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in this category in recent years ) , it is harder for investors to track those who are channeling their money . that may be part of the story , but the competition for talent and for customer talent appears intense between investment banks and others , yet collectively rewarded at the expense of those customers . managers may be able to demand higher and higher returns in the upturn as well . an alternative hypothesis , seemingly comfortable with the facts , has emerged recently from the university of paul woolley center for studies of dysfunctionality within capital markets , at the london school of economics . they may see short-term returns , but they can not comprehend very well how those returns are generated .
to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to trigger a global breakdown in law and order to impede creativity and innovation substantially . but , on the world peace index , it ranked 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank ranking , respectively , fifth , and six on innovation indices , but only 28th and 29th in the un peace index . conversely , bhutan ranks 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even make it on the innovation indices . the united nations is consistently ranked among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including insead ’s global innovation index .
germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have been growing stronger . but merkel still defends weber , and , with the exception of macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager , who is not from the epp but who is , in a sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat – – – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp but is not the spitzenkandidat . if the council succeeds in the ruling out weber and his populist supporters , macron will claim it as a success . finally , france provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly .
with the recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become the united nations secretary-general , after kofi annan , a ten-year tenure . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on reducing poverty and lowering human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world , drawing attention and financing away from crisis-stricken regions and critical longer-term problems such as climate change , disease control , sustainable energy access , and access to water . recent attempts to influence developments in these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes war , have failed to do so . aside from the long-term challenges of poverty , the environment , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere .
an outfit named global trade alert ( gta ) was at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls the us protectionist juggernaut . that figure has been widely quoted in the us financial press , and the market continues to write . many complain that something similar , if less spectacular , is taking hold nowadays . that is why the disastrous free-for-all in us trade policy over the 1930s has greatly aggravated the great depression . the gta ’s most recent report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 , with china as the most common target .
such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would diminish the destructive appeal to welfare magnetism and to give british grounds to reconsider their exit decisions with their heads held high . given this , why not have a system in which the host countries and the eu shared the costs of social benefits for migrants ? host countries could have assumed responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance , the sick pay and pensions . if people come to a country to earn higher wages , the pie available for redistribution gets bigger ; but when they come for welfare benefits , the pie gets smaller . and countries of origin could continue to provide the benefits that are not related to the work relationship , like child allowances for residence at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive .
it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that , without a solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be saved . no alternative , and certainly not status-quo , will work . those who opposed this because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and the loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization , and thus its exit from the world stage . the price of a monetary union ’s survival – and thus that of the european project – has more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . what needs to be done has long been obvious .
so the outcome of months of discussion might well be characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” the eu is not deprived of instruments ; the so-called “ structural funds , ” which finance investment in poorer regions but has no strategy for using them . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , italy has been growing exceptionally fast . for investors , the reform process might seem impossibly long and hesitant . more bugs will need to be fixed , including new bugs found in the fixes .
as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often seen as a homogeneous mass , where all students can be educated according to the same pedagogical approach . other countries might well find sweden ’s system worth studying at the same time . its schools are funded by local communities , and by working within a national curriculum drafted by the parliament and the government . but schools must be able to meet individual children ’s needs and capacity in ways that will enable them to learn stimulating adventure . while educational options and structures have been diversified , a major shortcoming of most european educational systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers if they want to stay in their profession , need to adhere to severely compartmentaligy .
from this perspective , they are in and out of a prison system , with little chance of ever regaining a legal job that enables them to escape from poverty . to break the cycle of poverty , a country needs to invest in its children ’s ’s future , rather than following the imprisonment of 2.3 million people per year , many for nonviolent crimes that are symptoms of poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home and through no hope and support at all . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they all too , frequently end up either in prison or suffer violence or premature death from it . what ’s insane about this is that the american has missed an obvious point and has missed it for 40 years .
the comparison between the two approaches is obvious . colombia ’s policymakers have been hoping that they can still bask in the international accolades they receive from foreign players . in that services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages have not become a major problem , owing to a fairly open immigration policy that allowed the country to exploit the talent that colombia , among others , had been unable to retain . and , unless they do , they may yet bask in the international accolades that they receive from foreign actors . the non-residential construction boom that created helped to absorb not only the labor-intensive , displaced rural areas , but also achieving a remarkable reduction in inequality .
at best , the us faces a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments start feeding through consumption and investment . at the global level , over-spending countries that have spent too much – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consume more , and import less . but derailing global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth even lower . moreover , there is now massive re-leveraging of the public-sector sector in the advanced economies , with enormous budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , a countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and an enormous cost in socializing the financial system ’s losses . at the same time , struggling countries , having spent too little – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries .
the current crisis , wall street ’s fall is to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . at the same time , the global dimension of this crisis surprisingly holds a positive side . after all , previous demands for tougher regulations were met with nothing , owing to financial-sector opposition . now , the international community is being charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the future . so far , a major part of the problem has been countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate .
in contrast to the militant liberalism of the french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side from taking part in the ongoing culture war from using the state ’s coercive power of taxation as an weapon in the struggle for the people ’s souls . after all , if state ostentatiously take sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . it is because of the infinite importance of this great debate that the state should strive to be made neutral . it is because of the infinite importance of the two religious and secular orthodoxies that i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over meaning . as much as possible , a liberal state should be neutral on such issues , abandoning it would require every citizen to determine whether he or she should give his financial support to the church of rome , or the one at bayreuth .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the implosion of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . following the path of least resistance will lead to a gradual disintegration of the international financial system . whereas international cooperation on regulatory reform is hard to achieve on a piecemeal basis , it may be attainable in a grand bargain reclaiming the entire financial order . the formerly represented by the united states has cracked down , and the latter , represented by china , are on the rise . a new multilateral system – based on sounder principles – needs to be invented .
within a period of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( concerning which private parties can appeal the decisions that the commission has made ) , voided three of monti ’s decisions that rejected proposed corporate mergers . today , though , the benefits that come from his achievements are at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , often seems at odds with that , typically , popular acclaim . nonetheless , the benefits that emanate from his achievements are at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with the competition case against the software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , monti will need to revisit his footing quickly .
drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and adequate resources , can be deflated . but time and time has come , humanitarian relief across africa has come up short , as it has done in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980 ’s . then , as now , food insecurity was predictable long before the first hunger pangs were felt . so many proud and dignified people were bereft of their livelihoods and forced to rely on one diminutive food daily or nothing at all . worse still , these tragedies have been avoidable ; we knew that these crises were coming .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relationships that cross borders beyond the control of governments , everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . at this level , power is distributed chaotically , among non-state actors . on this board , power is distributed chaotically , among non-state actors . on this bottom board , a level of close civilian cooperation also matters , affecting a country ’s attractiveness or soft power . here america needs europeans ’ help , and it makes no sense to call this world uni-polar , either .
translation : an orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banking at or near their present scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failures . and , because such big financial institutions are by any meaningful definition too big to fail , ” ” ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise have been the case . even worse still , they have both the motive and the opportunity to grow even bigger . this form of government subsidy amounts to substantial implicit grants to big banks .
the dutch group urgenda , together with nearly 900 co-prosecutors have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt stricter climate policies . and , by raising the costs of extracting fossil-fuel companies , the dutch would contribute to an eventual phase-out of a sector that has no place in a climate-safe world . for their part , fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . in the philippines , typhoon survivors delivered a withering indictment by the country at the united nations human rights commission calling for the investigations of large fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to bring about climate change . fortunately , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to carry the day .
a couple of years ago , for example , chip-maker national semiconductor managed the complicated delivery system that connects its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its consumer global network . it decided to out-source this surgery to a federal express that uses a sophisticated on-line system for managing global deliveries and sales . * liberalization of telecommunications , including the entry of new private-sector service providers on private contracts , is critical to look at reducing costs and spreading benefits . as a result , the national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers slashed from four weeks to a single week , and the distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , producing some of the mix of higher inflation and higher real output . so , the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” is becoming increasingly debated . what is often argued , then , is that monetizing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach bound to produce excessive inflation . but the debate about it is riddled with confusions . it is in parallel argued ( sometimes the very same people ) that monetary finance would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflation-targeting ” tax .
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became apparent who owed what to whom , who could not pay their debts , turning down later . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” ” of low-business-cycle volatility from the 1980s turned into yet another great depression . in hindsight , complacency about the run-up to the crisis was understandably unconscionable . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and firms gone under , not only in the united states but around the world . and yet , at the time , little changed as well .
should the spd – which will vote on a coalition agreement in early december – block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not completely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . for some , this is a cause for ambivalence . coalition partners disagree on how urgent the issue can sort it out . nonetheless , they have agreed within a year that will provide different options and models for protecting the german parliament , while granting assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country will be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . aside from a handful of minor particulars , the consensus has prevails .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . badly needed biosafety laws in nigeria and uganda , for example , have already abounded . likewise , the world health organization acknowledged that “ no impacts on human health ” had been revealed as a consequence of the consumption of such foods . indeed , any new gm crop variety needs to meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , with a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades .
regulators may well need to turn on the laws of bankruptcy to fix the problem . unless coverage is completed , one can expect to be regulated away from complaining that they were being placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators ’ call for voluntary activism will not mean much if it is merely an obligation on the derivatives industry to move against its own financial interests . that solution will be incomplete , but , because not all derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contract and that requirement . perhaps regulators will find it necessary to require that the regulated require the desired contract provisions .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person using “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection with the government ’s ” could be charged with sedition and potentially sentenced for life imprisonment . but even this was inadequate to britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition ’s laws in england . sedition was thus explicitly intended to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , albeit far from his latest . the british concluded , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ sedition law , adequate for a people ruled by a government of self-rule and belief , can be insufficient or , in some respects unsuited , for a country under foreign rule . ” in other words , no free speech by the indians , too , has ever been permitted .
seoul – china , already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer and international-reserve-asset holder , is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured in terms of purchasing power parity ) this year . after participating actively with international economic institutions , including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization , china has started to resemble a revisionist power seeking to build a new world order . now , it is using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . just last month , the us , china , and 20 more asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish the new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) . indeed , the country ’s days following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to hide brightness and cherish obscurity are long gone .
achieving the paris climate agreement promises not only to safeguard the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets around the world . these are , by all reasonable standards , remarkable uk-led achievements . indeed , progress on the single market has helped boost competitiveness . and enlargement has strengthened europe ’s security substantially .
the report , written by a nonpartisan group business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , suggested that the american working with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and strengthen its export controls and inward investment restrictions . a special report on semiconductors , vital to american national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) – provides some answers . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand america ’s jurisdiction over foreign investment committee ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investment , including chinese venture capital and private-equity investment in american start-ups stand in line with that recommendation . a report by the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , with some already tightening security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china and private-equity investment in american start-ups . the pcast report recommends that an american embrace of similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits by china ’s behavior .
four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of the opec embargo ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . business-led innovations and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependence to more efficient renewable-energy systems . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles , which require little or no fossil-fuel investment , and increase the share of renewable power in electricity supply could ensure that the substantially hotter and less agreeable world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does n’t materialize . our livelihoods , not to mention those in future generations , should not be held hostage to our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . swift , determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil-fuel options , and a growing proportion of renewables in 2050 could ensure that the substantially hotter and the less agreeable world of 2050 .
but the episode represented a marked escalation of hostilities , and it served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of the nuclear reactors in warsaw . on the same day that day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-engineered rockets from gaza in israel ’s dimona reactor . captured uranium , however , was not weapons-grade ; the international inspectors removed all of the sensitive materials brought out of iraq after the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . luckily , two missed the goal , and israel did manage to intercept the third . but what international response , if any , would have been launched had the cache was worth in force ?
at the same time , not all of the indicators are grim . america ’s economy reflects this very dichotomy . indeed , while dollar appreciation took some pressure off non-us economies dependent on exports or on foreign capital , it heightened the risk of an open-ended currency war . moreover , the 9/11 surge in oil prices , raising fears of yet another negative growth shock , has since receded . labor markets remain extraordinarily healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies .
in the personal-computing business , which moved from apple ’s bulky ii to the sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before the death of steve jobs ) , steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . for some reason , that was taking place at playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) . ( others became “ business ” leaders , but only steve become “ someone ” and admired millions , including the romanian waiter at the british airways parlance of which i sit now . ) i first encountered steve jobs in 1979 or in the 1980 ’s , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive because it was the average growth rate of 3 % in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? from the end of the great recession , from 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy grew at just 2.1 % per year , on average . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in open-list schemes , a 50 % quota should be adopted by the us . but if these countries replace their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of women elected ) in systems that currently do not have an effective quota legislation . in closed-list systems , viewed candidates lists should be zippered : male , female , male , male , female ( or vice versa ) . one can not predict with any precision the impact of increasing female quota percentages in open-list systems that currently hold effective quota laws . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in about 20 % of trump ’s many elected women ) in systems that currently lack effective quota legislation .
he has also flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments , money , or the personal merits of foreign governments doing business , sometimes a extravagant proportion , on his various hotels and golf clubs , and has found other ways to monetize the presidency . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to obstructing the investigation for his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . moreover , trump has tried to steer government contracts toward favored firms , or removed from those he dislikes , amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . for example , frustrated by the trump administration ’s refusal to steer government contracts toward favored firms or away from those whom it dislikes , amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post .
at times , debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps stretched out over the longer term , thereby giving the debtor country time to regain its capacity to pay . when debt becomes unsustainable , several potential bargaining outcomes arise . sometimes , lenders agree to swap old bonds for new ones , which either has lower face value or lower interest payments . argentina has defaulted on its public debt in 2001 . few governments refuse to be paid at all .
though ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , parts of the world where flu pandemics are beginning , the probability of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy , however , is altogether cost-effective . the response in turkey , where as many as 50 possible cases have appeared in eastern ukraine is instructive . in places like vietnam , indonesia , korea , and china , where the strain of pandemic will likely originate , expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure is missing . this ‘ tipping point ’ is highly cost-effective .
it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have massive budget deficits that are falling home to less than domestic investment ) . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it held in us dollars , but also in other major currencies , owing to its large trade and supply-chain dynamics in recent decades . deng xiaoping ’s reforms have ignited the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and rising middle class . it remains a vital assembly center for the global supply chain for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , that enable lower prices for consumers worldwide . that has made china a critical trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other major economies , in addition to putting it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics .
for ukraine ’s government , the angst is real . in the case of the balkan states , serbian military jets overran slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in just one threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to release their radioactive contents . with the possible exception of the arab 1990 ’s , wars were not going to be fought against or within countries with nuclear reactors under construction . history offers little guidance for whether warring countries would preempt damaging nuclear sites in the first place . even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what a chernobyl-brought catastrophe could look like .
over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made it starkly clear that it wo n’t easily cede its market share , to anyone . it has been pursuing a campaign to reclaim its erstwhile position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , bolstered by a surge in production , aimed at putting pressure on its weaker competitors . as soon as the door to asia became wide open , though russian firms seized the opportunity of downstream markets in india and indonesia , two countries that were critical of the saudis ’ own strategy . china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources .
history suggests that it would be one of a entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities and exercising their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , developing new concepts in business products and methods , and marketing them with the potential to do so ) . indeed , attaining , prospering , and thriving all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . this is the kind of economy that i hope that china develops . what kind of economy would offer this good life ? participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots society to the most advantaged .
a broad range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and perhaps irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . yet technological advances nowadays are eating up the better jobs . as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune from productivity gains , education and health care , technology is already lowering demand for skilled labor . ( although perhaps that is not a proper automation enterprise , the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of shopping services to the customer . ) for those who deferring the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , the ready answer is to train people for better-paying jobs .
in february , a roma father and his five year old son were killed in front of their homes for the first time in budapest . in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son had been killed in front of his home near budapest . in april , killers gunned down a roma factory as he walking up his job . in august , gunmen stormed the home of an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot dead and wounded her 13-year-old daughter . the home was burned down to the ground in march .
with american workers already competing against robots at home and against low-wage workers abroad , distorting imports will just create more jobs for robots . the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are all too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrolled today to rely on static measures like tariffs . a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . trump should try to protect individual workers , rather than individual jobs .
hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb ; but is he still a latter-day hitler , and is iran today the equivalent of germany in the 1930s ? those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . but hitler ’s track record over germany was humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters alike . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . he was very likely to have meant what it says about jews and israel , but never was it , whereas iran was a latter-day hitler , and is today iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930s ?
this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . but this requires a wealthy reservoir of thought , not a single , unified approach . this means that as long as european electorates insist on giving up their sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared responsibility will be a pipe dream . the final principle is congruity ; to ensure that decision-makers are accountable for their decisions outcomes .
the super-rich have had one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that have overwhelmingly benefited the wealthiest households . as these policies fail , global financial markets tend to overreact negatively , adding uncertainty to the global economy and little relief in sight as america enters an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . evangelicals were brought about by so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” ” ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities , including outright payment to religious groups for social services delivered locally and internationally . the bush team believed that they would eventually strike a tax cut for the wealthy with cuts in government spending ; but they never explained this publicly . george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on a extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of two major powers : the superb and evangelical christian societies .
public investment in infrastructure ( like the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad network ) , together with climate security and the environment , will be needed . to bolster purchasing power and spur consumption , tax cuts on low – and medium-income households are essential . of course , eu member states should establish the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves . japan was waiting too long to act , and it missed the proper opportunity to pursue countermeasures , which is why japan has still not recovered from its prolonged stagnation . some large eu countries are on the brink of recession .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , the investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . africa is also home to the strategic natural resources of emerging low-carbon industries and well positioned to play a key role in renewable energy . spending by households and companies , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual growth .
despite his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive action . earlier this month , putin was reinaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular stumbles , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . a far more competent wildplaceholder , however , would have succeeded by sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov passed away , and has since relegated russia ’s role as russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” ” ” ” overseeing environmental and transportation assets . but ivanov is far taller than putin , who , at any rate , had accomplished only the rank of colonel .
cambridge – government programs to support retirees are in trouble in each country , owing to rising life expectancy and the rising ratio of pensioners to taxpayers . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s ’s “ trust fund ” system of funding for social security will produce crises when the fund runs out . here is how the american system works : by law , a payroll tax is devoted entirely to financing retiree benefits . the problem will be deteriorating in the years ahead as the adverse demographic trend intensifies the fiscal burden of funding pensions and health care . although options at the moment will be different from choices facing other governments , policies to escape the american crisis are relevant to other countries that are confronting populations with aging .
he recently criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the commonsense needed from someone who governs . ” lula remains popular with brazilians because his populist rhetoric reflected genuine sympathy for brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to resist open criticism . indeed , while the scandals shaken his government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in their reporting of the scandals , helped to show brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to resist open criticism . one reason for this is that corruption scandals provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action .
the two organization for american electoral observation missions that he himself invited and whose terms he had accepted then refused to certify the outcome . true , morales resigned when the military told him , and after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently gone . the constitutional court , which allowed morales to run , deemed the legal of presidential succession ; timely elections were promised ; and the army did not take power . the bolivian military was arrested without a unified one .
it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it is moving very quickly into precipitating one another in a crisis . and they resent the point of mobilizing in the streets , any hint that a clique at the top is barring its way . it is neither consistent nor rational , either . and they resent very quickly in precipitating a crisis .
countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with ample exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . financial globalization , in particular , played havoc with the old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met with american-style capitalism , with its few safety valves on , it created an explosive mix . this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism as long as they obeyed several simple international rules . the current crisis shows how far we have come from this model .
for decades , both america and saudi arabia had a balance of asymmetries within which the us depended on them as the swing oil producer , and depended on the us for ultimate military security . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . so , even if america had no other interests in the middle east , such as israel or the nuclear nonproliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports would not be likely to free america from its military expenditures , which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion a year , with the help of america ’s oil routes in the region . power arises from a sense of asymmetries in interdependence . power arises from asymmetries in interdependence .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about the deep divisions between eu member states over brexit , and issues whether “ hungarians and poles ” want precisely that same thing as germans and french . at the national level , the lack of political will resulted in craven use of referenda , like the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty set up by the european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands , the eu-ukraine association vote last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . indeed , european leaders ’ ’ ’ ’ parochialism are a major reason why the eu is failing to maintain broad-based public support . in each case , according to freedom house , voters have said that , “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk – on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for their own domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ ’ ’ lack of historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose required to empower eu citizens to feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their various national identity .
florence , british politics was always something of an experimental laboratory for a industrialized world . today , the equivalent of collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime in which the party that styled itself as the “ new labour party , ” has embraced a powerful role for markets , particularly for largely deregulated financial markets . in the 1960 ’s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that benefiting all , with high levels of employment and substantial wage growth . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to govern the economy went bust . that model was politically based on top-down consensus and economically on keynesian demand management .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
other countries ’ governments seem to have struggled to distance themselves from the problem , for fear of the contagion that they knew would likely have spread . in fact , mayors have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; television news programs have shown hours of footage of burning cars . as french cities have been burned , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france . embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs have shown hours of images of burning cars . other countries ’ governments , too , seem vulnerable to urban violence to distance themselves from the problem , fearing the contagion they know are likely to spread .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift huge numbers of people out of poverty , thereby preventing a crisis of legitimacy – a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices – will be larger this year . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is forecast to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms . to be sure , use intensity has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen since 2000 , or , as is the case in copenhagen and petroleum , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high rates . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at elevated rates than the global supply , prices will continue to rise . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined by the amount of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year .
in the automobile sector , a default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transport services due to the absence of spare parts . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the direct result of a government default on a $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . payment arrears on food imports amounts to $ 2.4 trillion , leading to a substantial shortage of staple goods . a similar situation prevails all over the rest of the economy . he had been diagnosed with cancer earlier this year , and had to launch an social-media campaign to locate the medicines that his treatment has required .
likewise , while egypt is at the center of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to recapture a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and around the region as a whole . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy . after all , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners by a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . will it have to obtain the bomb as well ? after all , turkey is already a well-functioning democracy .
but in a situation in which many fields of social life -- such as education , health and social services -- are in need of prompt and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its work provides a credible avenue for change . state-owned health insurance companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not just insecure and inefficient ; they also run counter to the very idea of political reform . state-owned health insurance companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. , are not just insecure and inefficient ; they also run counter to the very idea of political reform . if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the notion that the constitution amounts to an entitlement , rather than a set of enforceable legal right . these state-controlled benefits have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption .
a senegalese friend wrote me of her illiterate mother , who takes a bus to dakar every month to watch a bollywood movie ; she fails to grasp the hindi dialogue and can n’t read french subtitles ; but she can still catch the spirit of movies and grasp the story ; and people like her look at india with stars in her eyes as a result . an indian diplomat in damascus only a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits , as large as those of us then-president hafez al-assad , was among the bachchan superstar amitabh bachchan . so , too , does the work of indian fashions designers now striding around the world ’s runways . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother , who takes a bus to watch a bollywood movie ; she does n’t grasp the hindi dialogue and can n’t n’t read the french subtitles ; instead , she can still catch the movie spirit and understand the story ; and people like her close look at india with stars in its eyes .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth president , has been able to visit india since it gained independence , arrives at a time when both the united states and india seem thorny , and the lack of resolution makes them more intractable . those relating to security in afghanistan and pakistan are just as treacherous . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be nearly as bitter as they are between america and china ; they are thorny , and lack of resolution makes them more intractable . for india , issues on the agenda for obama ’s visit are enormous and complex , with options for resolving it uniquely restricted . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening up an awkward gap with national security and economic status , the focus of his meetings with india ’s government .
moreover , knowledge-intensive technology has a winner-take-all network effect , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , class , industry , and regions struggling to compete . the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , because rising migration spreads political stress and instability elsewhere . thanks to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics . according to the un ’s high commission for refugees , an estimated 65 million refugees over the past year alone , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . this can invite geopolitical interference that deteriorates quickly into a lose-lose scenario , like that already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries where governments are fragile or fail .
many have cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in spain in 2014 . but such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 . in short , spain is one nation indivisible . that the constitution marked the country ’s ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and that it provides a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ rooted in an indissoluble unity of the spanish people , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with its sovereignty belonging to spain ’s peoples .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the us has squandered far too much energy trying to return to the era of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption is that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were merely temporary , underpinning policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries , while failing to address key problems like high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is over , and a “ post-post-crisis ” world is on us . geneva , the world needs to avoid looking backward to the us . it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that fosters shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and in tomorrow .
obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is the result of many factors and fallacies . american president donald trump is captive to a country ’s own labor unions that buy the false narrative that trade with poor countries increases the ranks of the american poor by driving up american wages . indeed , it is notable that while obama ’s own state of the union address in january 2010 at the very least referred to doha , his address back in january 2011 did not . obama confined his approach to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . these were emphasized in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released over the signatures of nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade specialists worldwide , urging a presidential shift toward doha .
but this is no easy task , particularly in the short run . diversification away from dollar assets is the day ’s advice . some people even predict a double-dip recession in the short term . if that happens , the chance of a real american default would be much higher than it is today . these new worries are raising alarm bells in china .
one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , went a step further : requiring all its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions , a bold move that could transform capital markets . last year , one out of every $ 6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states , a combined total of $ 6.6 trillion , was allocated to some form of sustainable investment , particularly publicly owned equities . if this trend continues , with the advancement of environmental or social goals enhancing investment ’s value , it will strengthen the commitment to unsustainability , which is already gaining momentum among companies worldwide . berkeley – investors worldwide – are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring about environmental and social benefits alongside market rates of return . some 1,260 companies , which manage a $ 45 trillion worth of wealth , are the united nations signatories to the united nations “ “ “ “ “ principles for responsible ” investments ” that recognize the environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) engine , and also the long-term health and stability of companies and markets – as critical to investors .
the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is at a breaking point ; and a new set of powers rises , brings its own unparalleled worldviews to global affairs . but that multipolar dynamic also carries instability . in international politics , perceptions matter , at times even more than reality . more diverse perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing as well .
to its credit , the bri ’s egg industry had embraced the situation , developing new , less vicious methods designed to keep hens . prohibiting battery cages in the eu eventually enacted in 1999 , but ensuring that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the facilities in which they invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 . in britain and some european countries , animal welfare has become politically salient , putting pressure on parliamentary representatives to read . in the us , the european union established the animal-welfare board , and the committee has recommended banning a battery cage alongside some other forms of close confinement of pigs and calves . some supermarket chains have even stopped conducting eggs from battery hens .
but at a time when every digital service becomes more and more personalized , why should social policy remain confined to the twentieth-century philosophy and the solution ? more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risks materialize , public policies could encourage individuals throughout their working lives by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . that may sound utopian ; in some ways , it is . finally , early school-leavers could all be endowed with points for later use in professional training . for example , early school-leavers were able to be endowed with points for later on a professional job .
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . but corruption poses the single biggest constraint on growth and development in a wide range of countries , particularly as it diverts resources from the poor . many cabinet secretary , bank officer , and ngo representative have experienced his blunt critique as well , just as his effusive praise . it used to be that , even mentioning corruption in some official circles was widely regarded as taboo in the first place . in fact , the world bank has insisted that corruption be perceived as a cancer , and that fighting it is made synonymous with fighting poverty .
but it is the status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes the security council ’s enlargement to make it permanent . it is the revisionist power surrounding the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but this is the status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes the security council ’s enlargement to defer genuine financial reform . in fact , the modest action undertaken in response to the changing distribution of global power has been confined to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a small handful of countries . the g20 ’s formation , for example , has been the improvisation designed to defer genuine financial reform .
the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary foundation ( such as ethnicity , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is especially harmful in that respect . indeed , intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of the equality of opportunity . rising inequality of outcomes need not bring about a decrease in intergenerational mobility . it may be capable of leading to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . whether it depends heavily on whether important instruments that foster equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are broadly accessible .
last may , eureeca.com took the concept of crowdfunding further than ever before , creating the first truly global crowd-investing marketplace to offer financing in financing companies . if used wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several specifically target clean-tech solutions . the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a vast pool of finance , not to mention connections and expertise – from small investors . other increasingly prominent trends , like collaborative consumption , paying per utilization , and sharing and leasing models , could offer similarly powerful incentives to build a blue economy .
in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across borders into neighboring india into overcrowded classrooms , creating conditions that would inevitably have given rise to cholera outbreaks . in 1971 , the battle broke out , when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan . as many people poured into death , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis assumed a chance in dire circumstances . bangladesh knows that wartime cholera all too well . the standard of care at that time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions can not be administered widely .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . in may 2016 , the hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most important step forward to date in the fight against climate change . but its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . the paris accord ’s main objective is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in the history of humankind , and also the first civilization to embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , with the us , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities , in conjunction with a crisis of global responsibilities . but how to restore in the human mind a shared attitude toward what lies beyond the us if people all over the globe have a different picture from that above , if people everywhere feel the need to highlight their “ otherness ” ? could the fact that mankind thinks only within limits of what lies at its vision , and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not only in the end , but in the aftermath of the loss of metaphysical certitude , of a loss of god ? is there any sense to try to turn the human mind to the heavens when such a turn would only aggravate the conflicts on the earth among us ’s adherents ? even more succinctly still , could n’t today have a crisis of responsibility and accountability as the world as a whole really did and for its future was the logical result of the world ’s modern concept as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-knows – what purpose -- which do n’t question or seek the deeper meaning of existence , and renounces any and all metaphysics ?
at the heart of this transformation lies in the energy transition that , though underway , lags or stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and large end users is critical , as is the expansion of affordable and reliable clean-energy services to all who need them . those are the choices drivethe to transform the world . at the same time , there needs major reform of how the transition is financed . he has thrown gauntlet among the world ’s major economies : tell us when you will phase out coal ; end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies ; and shift taxation away from income toward pollution .
macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather in the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are the logical people towards filling that role . that ’s the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ hawp://squamlakegroup.org] , the think tank of 15 academic finance economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . martin čihák of the international monetary fund , reported in july 2007 that of the 47 central banks found at the publication of financial stability reports ( fsrs ) , “ practically all the ” signaled a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent news accounts . new haven , central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . and yet , even as these central banks have failed to see past crises in the past , they should still be playing the leading role in preventing another crisis
sadly , in making that choice , the us president opposes turning away from america ’s classic vision engraved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem , “ give me tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” and , even after the repeal of the daca was announced , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with hearts and compassion . ” yet , seemingly convinced that daca recipients had taken jobs away from their citizens , the us concluded that the same heart and compassion had to be done “ for the unemployed , the fight , and forgotten the americans . ” that credo has benefited tens of millions of newcomers and iron-fisted with galimeasurably strengthening america . while hecwing during the daca ’s presidential campaign , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , arguing that it would face a “ “ very tough ” ” ” ” us administration .
they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently and to maximize government revenues . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win tough battles . amlo ’s decision on lower public-sector wages has already led many high-level officials to seek jobs elsewhere . those on the right to early retirement are taking it , rather than waiting for amlo ’s cuts . they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently , and to maximize government revenue .
and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 degrees celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels , far more than the two degrees that climate scientists have identified as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . in order to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups should be established in three key areas . a single coalition comprising committed governments would seek to drive the cost of renewable energy at least to that of fossil-fuel power in ten years . moreover , global co2 emissions have reached a record high in 2012 , with some 50 % of that year . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs support .
at the stroke of the 8:30 p.m. on saturday , nearly one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by turning back their lights for one hour . in showing official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , the new york-based network , london ’s great ben ffel tower , and the skylines of both hong kong and las vegas . sao paulo , as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour hardly seems hard to beat . what ever else may be , earth hour after day , certainly seems to be one of the most upsuccessful performers in publicity stunts ever dreamed of . first , organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 , through a local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and the level of involvement ( both individual and official ) that generates explode in recent years , to the point that hardly any corner of the earth that the campaign had really not touched .
but britain joined the european community , not only the free-trade area that cameron now apparently wants . indeed , in his speech , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice ( ecj ) . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics were accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after many others had done so . essentially , the british have been referring to the fact that a loose confederation of nation-states is working for business as europeans as badly as the uk needs the eu . even the supremacy of euro-skepticism in defined areas has never been lessened and appeared in cameron ’s speech .
coal-fired power is also the primary source of carbon dioxide , a major greenhouse-gas responsible for climate change , which causes around 150,000 premature deaths annually , and threatens pervasive risks that century and beyond . estimates for the global commission on the economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china , the world ’s top coal-consuming economy , in 2010 . yet human health is at greater risk in countries burning more coal . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people escape poverty in the us , not least in china , where coal-fired power plants have underpinned nearly 700 % of growth in per capita incomes since 1990 . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low - and middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population .
in politics , this may be dangerous , for it encourages basing choices , regardless of how popular opinion momentarily prevails . indeed , democracy nowadays embraced a pop culture of quickly passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow , and always seems to be waiting more in the wings . the call for more referenda both sets us and fuels this trend . but sometimes that desire looks overwhelming at post-modern democracies everywhere . referenda are really for the most part “ snapshots . ”
unless i know a person ’s name , ” i might not even know what a firm ’s it is doing ? she might , perhaps , say “ “ “ “ “ message ” for president barack obama , ” if she shared an open letter , but otherwise also … . “ investment ” proposal for your consideration , ” ” or , “ serve as a reference ? ” or , “ investment proposition for your thinking , ” or signals a desired response : a “ invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” unfortunately , i get lots of messages headlined , “ updates . ”
india ’s octogenarian line of prime minister , manmohan singh , recently reawakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer for the political economy and a former chief economist for the imf . but it is far from obvious that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . and yet the changes currently afoot may just have reversed things around . economists worldwide have received note of the arrival of raghuram rajan as the chief economist at the finance ministry .
the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a powerful commitment to following the truth is also required . we must abandon popper the tacit assumption that political discourse is aimed at a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . these may not be identi­­cal to science , but they should be akin in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria on which political views are to be considered . policymakers will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only when the public trusts the right to truth and punishes politicians when it seizes them in deliberating deception . we need to put in place new ground rules of political discourse .
but those rationales will do so not : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in medals . why are indian athletes performing so badly ? we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it ’s not just your sights against his or her ; your legs against your hers ; but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer has a bow . the explanations range from the anthropological borderline racist : indians do n’t have the genes , the built , the stamina , the climate , whatever . there are structural and shortstructural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , devices , finance sources .
soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive evidence . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified us intelligence report stating that “ we do n’t know with any precision how much we do n’t know about the “ position of wmd program ” in iraq . as early as january 1998 , bush ’s administration included ten of the pnac ’s 25 signatories ( pnac ) founding statements of us policy , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . and , after winning the presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . as early as january 1998 , the bush administration included ten of the pnac ’s 25 signatories ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to overthrow saddam hussein .
the greatest divide between 2009 and 1979 came from that revolution itself . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of a narrow , ruling stratum , and a far broader , support group that was put in charge of governance and political mobilization . the clerical elite gradually lost power to the country ’s military-security groups , from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged . r evolutions gave birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolutions were no exception .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of that point . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
research shows , for example , that many girls around the world , and particularly those in the global south , are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking can be dramatic . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often do not receive school because they lack access to clean sanitary products . finally , we need solutions that are based on facts .
if greece ’s deal with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank would no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . under these conditions , it would become more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds from greek banks . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender can be monetary or fiscal , and in greece both types are in doubt .
in the short run , however , falling countries often take on more risk , and are therefore more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . as a result , russia , almost totally dependent on revenues from its power resources , is a “ one crop economy , ” with its corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of force by states to usurp territory from their neighbors . on the other side , russia has created a political dilemma . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring ukraine and the middle east , as well as his cyber attacks against america and others , though designed to make russia look big again , only worsen the country ’s long-term prospects .
the continuing poker game between the greek government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all of the parties involved , and much of europe . preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin are unable to live with greece as a failed state and economy . greece needs both money and some reform , fast and within the eurozone . it can ultimately end only with a renewed bailout of greece or a european plunge into disaster .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill that vacuum as well . indeed , china ’s rise has given it a new orbit for many countries worldwide , particularly in developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , china has ’s exceptional diplomatic prowess , across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) , has made it an alternative hegemonic power , one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage , or moralizing about democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement his role as a provider of investment , and all manner of infrastructure and aid to a host of likeminded countries . his unilateralist approach probably provides china with new opportunities to cement its role with an almost unhinged foreign role in its ongoing effort to prevail over the hearts and minds of those whose countries come to feel vital , economically , and politically to its strategic interests .
that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who regarded cities as the subpit of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that it “ would rather see men grazing on the meadow grass than devouring one another in cities . ” urbanites thus became the type of people ready to sacrifice one another to please their appetites : the cannibals . austin , living in a town turned you into a cannibal . rousseau was so convinced of the malign impact of urbanization that it “ would rather see men grazing on a meadow grass ” than devouring one another in a town .
if not , could any other country fill that role , even partly ? looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , the annualized growth rate of 8 % ( compared to the previous decade ’s 10 % rate ) and a gradual consumption gain of 50 % of gdp would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion by 2030 . with that scenario in place , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in the dollar . with apple ’s recent guidance points to a across-the-board reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve as the global economy ’s sole engine for the next decade ? in that scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in the dollar .
first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging-market economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending . yet , unlike many emerging-market economies , china does not struggle with currency mismatches , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which make it a net lender to the rest of the world . indeed , at least four “ mismatches ” ” ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , with three of them clashing with china today . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth miseries between ultra-low nominal interest rates and the relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors , who have been abetted by speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . but china has failed to avoid a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio doubled in the past decade , from around 110 % in 2008 to just 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets .
reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , and to creative policies to support that goal , will help europe continue to reap rewards for one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . the events of the past 15 months , beginning with deepwater horizon oil spill in mexico ’s gulf , followed by violence in north africa and a major tragedy in japan , confront the world with stark choices between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and advance of clean energy . with the goal of 20 gw of solar generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could grow rapidly . in recent decades , europe has been a driving force for energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , ecological , and security benefits of renewable energy .
for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environment , phytosanitary standards , or as argument for local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , litigation , or human rights . in october 1982 , the french government required that every japanese unhcr imports enter the country through poitiers , a town hundreds of miles from the nearest important shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in impact until after april 1983 . even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade can be hampered by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping laws , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . human ingenuity seems to know none of these bounds when it comes to dream of protectionist barriers .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , to defeat populism requires grips with a crucial reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result in the government ’s loss of power . targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . in fact , it is entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually reinforce their chances of being reelected by making wilder and more impossible promises , and that causes more economic harm .
as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . two more destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : strong incentives for using debt to prop up demand , and a shift to finance public debt via private institutions at market prices , under the guise of fighting inflation . the financial sector has just since made every effort to design instruments that guard against price fluctuations , turning private debt into tradable financial securities into equities and gain access to speculative markets . but these efforts have been conducive to fraud and delinquency , thus fueling a wave of new financial crises , in europe in 1992 , asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 – as well as a recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . these trends have boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with the liquidity generated by private banking activities stranded by transactions in the real economy .
there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land-acquisition , structure contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and to improve collaboration with contractors . in australia , the state for new south wales cut approval times by 11 % in just one year . similarly , the united kingdom established a cost-review program that identified 40 major open-tization projects , reformed global planning processes , and then created a cabinet subcommittee to ensure faster delivery of projects , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by up to 15 % . additional saving opportunities – to make $ 400 billion annually , lying in more streamlined infrastructure projects . and chile ’s national public-investment system evaluates all proposed public projects using standard formulation , practices , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % .
other categories encompass entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and workers ) , biology , space flight , and much more , including representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are interned . and this implies a better , more meaningful response when we seek to manage . most things do n’t exist in isolation , either . they have complicated relationships with other things , and by representing that information using verbs , for example , “ the company that google has acquired ” ” vs. a company that google competes with ” in ” the us , can represent the world in a more accurate way . it will soon be possible to carry out .
last year , the european commission vice president viviane reding issued a wake-up call for voluntary action . the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to keep a certain proportion of women , up from about 60 % . a forte american foundation has now followed suit with its own list of “ board-ready women . ” reding has invited corporations to sign on to an gender balance target of 40 % of the female board ’s membership . this proposed mandate has been stillborn .
cambridge – at the beginning of every fall , i tease my students at the following question : is it better to be poor in a wealthy country , or in a wealthy country ? but we can devise a more structured , low-key version of the question for which there is a definitive answer . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the us typically invites a significant and irreversible debate .
given the dire returns on savings since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates could force her to put even more money aside . alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her retirement fund ) into purchasing risky long-maturity bonds . given that those bonds are already aggressively priced out of hand , such a move might therefore set her up again , when interest rates eventually start rising . indeed , america might well be in the process of adding the retirement crisis to the problem of unemployment . it has saved , because it has wanted enough money left to retire from deflation .
certainly , a zambians ’ achievement can not compete with the intervention in libya or the arab spring ’s drama . after all , smooth power transitions are not taken for granted . what made zambia ’s elections so important is not so much that the challenger won . and yet , what happened in zambia was related to these developments , and therefore relevant everywhere . indeed , it was defeated by an incumbent who genuinely sought to instill a job and who could reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders to be defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the outcome .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . its use of hard power won a civil war over syrian president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how a strategic deployment of an unrestrained military force , witness the utter destruction of aleppo , can be a game-changer . but russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , and the kurds , as well as israel and iran . russia ’s diplomatic vulnerabilities have been starkly apparent in syria . whereas a policy of neutrality has allowed russia to maintain dialogue with the various sides , it will do nothing to create a new regional order .
but , once the inflows persisted in 2018 , the imf had to step in , closing the external financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion of loan program ( later rose to $ 57 billion ) . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bond from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed into greece once again . yet , again , the external financing problem was hardly a temporary phenomenon ; after all , argentinian electorate soon started bridge to the reforms being demanded by the imf . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign .
helicopter money proponents , directly crediting citizens with central bank money or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly argue that it has the advantage of injecting money directly into those who would spend it . moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . indeed , bolstering demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . this might take the airlift from incipient asset bubbles , which could be forming and ease the pressures on the institutional investors who are struggling to find the yield that they need to meet their insurance and pension obligations . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured way headed by the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to warfare , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . that followed two visits to haiti over the last 18 months , and to a donor ’s conference that sponsored , in april , sought to raise between $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban assumed an active role in the gaza crisis . he also visited the un compound at the very center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing . he regularly defended palestinians ’ rights against the state , but also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks against south israel .
moreover , advanced economies ’ spillover effects extend far beyond financial shocks . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , even as volatility in capital flows has risen worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . during the past couple of years , the eurozone ’s deficit economies – and , more recently , italy – have been pursuing massive external adjustments , whereas germany and the netherlands have sustained their large trade surpluses . at the same time , emerging economies are suffering from the effects of their developed countries ’ ’ external imbalances , particularly the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s swelling current-account surplus . boom-bust financial cycles drive primarily on the shocks that were generated across advanced economies , but are key determinants of emerging markets ’ ’ business cycles .
but , even under an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will need to answer a vexing question that they have failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ? in a country with more than 45 million people under 35 years of age , there is no political player with any strategic insights that can afford a prolonged period of time . finally , despite major demographic and economic transformations in egypt over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains an agrarian character to favor conciliation and compromise . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now run out of passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably choose to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of its army – and the unlikelihood of being split within its leadership – makes any wide-ranging violence untenable , particularly given that the egyptian state is testing terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s substantially weakened jihadist groups ’ operating assets within the country .
powerful states , like china and russia , have not been constrained by authoritarian rule at home , but are being promoted by those in other like-minded countries . south africa ’s largely peaceful transitions to multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s was a further advance on rights . but the past decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , and during the present decade ’s upheavals , and finally appears to have reversed against the human-rights cause . the same was true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . a factor contributing to their demise was the shift in thinking that transformed the conflicts between east and west away from one that emphasized economic systems was the contrast between totalitarianism and respect for rights that totally discredited moscow ’s oppressive regimes , and helped pull them apart .
because technological innovations further reduce entry barriers for both producers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages has become even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border relationships and interdependent dependencies . for the longer-term health of either individual participants and the global system as a whole , these relationships need to function efficiently as a cooperative approach that considers credible . this is one reason why the current confrontations between america and china have fueled fears of severe damage , especially if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ” supply chains now can have as many important international links as domestic ones , with a substantial share of internal demand to be met partly or wholly produced abroad . if not , they risk resulting in reduced growth and welfare levels .
if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find itself with only grief and self-restraint . as long as britain wants to do business with others , it will need to agree with common rules . it is simply the question of whether the us would prefer china to ’s approach to its intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or europe ’s food and agricultural standards over those of the us . this is not about sovereignty or satrapy , either . if britain is to pursue a purist definition of sovereignty , it will have to find only grief and self-restraint .
the gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to avoid the need for additional credit bailouts . but sluggish growth implies less fiscal revenues and more payments on cushion of hardship , placing pressure on government budgets . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of sluggish economic recovery . in the us , which has the most progressive income taxes among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . in europe , structural reforms target higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would endorse an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate speech ( which has no doubt been agreed upon in advance by east german leaders ) about disarming west germany ’s communists from that debate . thadden himself , however , has avoided providing a direct response , suggesting that he would not fight alongside his sister . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he will endorse an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate speech ( which no doubt was agreed upon in advance by east german leaders ) about disarming west germany ’s communists from this debate .
this asset class would sit down between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it for at least 15 years or longer . to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating the asset class that we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy of which encompasses a non-profit regulatory regime . most funds devoted the current infrastructure , investments that are considered relatively safe , because they entail little or no construction risk , and demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash income . though financing for public infrastructure has returned to 2008 levels , little is funneled into new projects .
washington , dc , belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 billion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse electoral effects and the largest protests by his regime ever saw . but , following a recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock seems to be run out of his protracted misrule . lukashenko has been forced out by removing russia ’s oil-price subsidies by 2009 to pounce , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapsing . he has tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 trillion loan , making promises of freer credit , which in any case is inadequate to rescue the regime .
in its current struggles with google , for example , china ’s government appears to think that its technologists can furnish the means to keep an old thought check . indeed , it is becoming increasingly apparent that china has opened its economy only to keep the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , not to respect and enhance ordinary chinese ’ lives . but , happily for anyone with perseverance and a modicum of computer skill , the internet ’s leaks like sieve . the great advances in china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something that all of china ’s celebrate . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates in the starkest way that china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can furnish the means to maintain an age-old thought control .
in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” liu , the master tactician , appears to be underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . given these mounting concerns , there are now signs of implementation risks to a very different light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted that the upcoming reforms will take place with surprising speed . liu , the master tactician , appears to have underscoring the links between leadership power and the pace of reform .
a similar picture , albeit on a lesser scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living in the continent deserves the urgent attention of government leaders as they shape the policies of an enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing large and most vulnerable minority . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves the urgent attention of government leaders as they shape the policies of an enlarged eu . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between the majority population and the roma ; or “ gypsies ” , many of whom live in extreme poverty .
within a “ one country , two systems ” boundary framework , hong kong ’s own government has the powers to pursue internal security issues . but , where its actions are insufficient , it is china ’s central government ’s right and accountability to intervene . to help find solutions , we have been guided by a pest ( political , economic , commonwealth , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . that need not become this way ; after all , it does n’t need to be that way . on the political front , the main lesson is that it is up to governments to ensure order and security .
and this could mark the beginning of the slow-motion process of european disintegration . above all , it needs a program of ideas on research and development , education , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the populists across all eu member countries . pro-european forces need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and , most important , for a cohesive and aggressive policy to resolve europe ’s long-term structural problems . should they fail , the prospect of a populist parliament dominated by the eu will become a reality . europe ’s parliamentary elections are less than four months away .
when asked whether america was poised to become the world 's second-largest economy , they were reticent . elected officials everywhere must adapt , to varying degrees , in order to fulfill the expectations of those who place them in office . their reactions were understandable : even entertaining the possibility that america has become “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . by contrast , intellectuals have a special duty to think unthinkable and to speak frivolous . they are supposed to consider all options , even disagreeable ones , and to prepare populists for the prospective development .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has been called the fourth industrial revolution . in the coming years , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume them . to maximize benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies with a focus on three key fields : education , the business environment , and connectivity . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . human capital is vitally important for an economy ’s success .
and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , with unskilled workers paying a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . for example , payroll-tax cuts – which would permit small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – may require reduced rents . in fact , italy ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . for starters , payroll-tax cuts – which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive – may require reduced rents .
kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely be unable to act in time . current polls indicate that pis ’s popularity has skyrocketed to around 40 % , more than twice that of the previous ruling party , the civic platform . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that , “ “ “ “ the european commission ” wo n’t break poland ’s will on the basis of completing reforms … unless we reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because , sooner or later , they would be negated , withdrawing from the courts that the us today has . and , though thousands , perhaps tens of thousands , of protesters gathered in front of the supreme court in recent weeks , with some eight million others voting for the pis in the 2015 elections . this suggests that , while poles might not agree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk too much for a free judiciary or liberal-democratic principles generally .
there is also some routine praise for the two presidents on which they worked with , george w. bush , and barack obama , and reprise of their frustrations with those of people not seeing the world their way and making impediments , like the sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) , and the various pesky congressional staff . the main interest lies not so much in narrative chapters commemorating the same earth as in their original books , as in their provides for the policy advice of the future . apparently , three suggestions should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . tim had the idea that … hank had taken a different view , ” ” and so on , as if an oral historian three musketeers had been interviewed by the oral historian . three proposals , in particular , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . in germany , only 6 % of respondents think that he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom believe that trump is arrogant , and just 50 % continue to believe that america and the united kingdom have a peculiar relationship now that it is in office . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both of which are led by populist right-wing governments . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled visit to the uk was being delayed indefinitely .
conventional wisdom has always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it may be the state ( or the non-state ) with the best story that wins . in the six th century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france acquired from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its naval . today , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how it will develop successful strategies of survival . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton countered that america can not solve its most pressing problems on its own ; the world can not solve them without america . in a 2009 inaugural address , us president barack obama argued that “ our power grows through its prudent use ; our security was fring away from the justness of our cause , the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and self-restraint . ”
the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems , whatever their short-term achievements in keeping the line against irresponsible policies , are unsustainable in the long run . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that allow them to set policies that are sustainable in the long term , while safeguarding the democratic process itself . more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble is stoking controversy , when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , it is telling that “ france will be happy if someone can bully the parliament into reform . ” the public consensus in favor of difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters have the opportunity to grasp and accept tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency ; the problems with which china now operates wrestling .
he turned to the university of nebraska , where he received his undergraduate degrees , as well as acquired hybrid corn and other improved seeds that the university was developing . afterwards , he tracked inputs and weather patterns , seldom accomplished this time . my father realized that he could go it alone and would need better access to financing . he had to stay in nebraska and help my grandfather save the family farm of banks , which had already repossessed only one-third of the land . the most important change my father made was in his thinking : he came to think of the farm not as subsistence surgery , but as a family enterprise .
it also means applying strict co2 emission limits to new passenger vehicles , public transport , and commercial sea gas plants , and air transport links . second , europe needs to take the lead on responsible utilities and becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of materials are processed into energy or produced annually by the eu . only 0.6 billion tons of recycling , a mere 7.5 % , is originate in recycling . and that means making europe , together with our automotive industry , the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 .
but the payoff , for both the american state and the liberal world order that it created , would be substantial . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s overarching message should be that the american people must conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . ” this is not merely a matter of semantics ; such a change will require that america re-conceive its role around the world . the key to its success will be to america ’s capacity to remain the best , and to abandon the worst , of that mostly american of notions : exceptionalism . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a class of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance in the foreign-policy debates that ran up to the american election , including by preparing a public debate paper .
between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income barely budged from $ 600 , whereas the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain has doubled . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates for historic gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its relations with the west . after all , china ’s political stability , and the relative absence of violence , was thus achieved at the expense of economic dynamism , rather than in harmony with it . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise simply serves as a “ restoration ” of the country ’s success to which it enjoyed prior to nineteenth-century western interintrusions disrupted its harmonious system . outsiders misread that system , “ built on a clearly defined scheme , ” ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy at the height of the ” and “ “ scholar gentry to administer affairs of the state ” as a recipe for stagnation .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . the west would do well to begin cultivating a natural partner in such a hazardous and complex region . moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding ally of the us . morocco is well positioned to drive the promotion of security and development across north africa and beyond . its political stability , an open economy , and balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned with america ’s and europe ’s regional interests .
most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , but in their scientific careers reveal two kinds of male conduct . the first concerns the compulsion to establish totally trivial facts about science . the issue for female faculty members , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complex . i suspect that here the problem reflects the fundamental differences between the way women and men approach science as the microcosm of life . as i grow older , i am no longer confident why this is so important , but the male members of our species seem to think that it is .
this , together with the prominence of the consultative council ( which includes the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , a brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensibilities of minority rights , combined with the prominence of giving a project to national , regional , and international , observation . to be sure , some in the syrian government might well be aware of this . but the project looks like the kind of activity that can help to inspire visions of change . so far , syria ’s authorities have not responded to a tharwa project . presumably , it is still too early in a game for this to happen .
every new bilateral deal , each chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , one must start asking the right questions . will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities for those who become economically displaced ? how sustainable , and how evenly spread will they bring ? that growth reflects the flawed economic model of the pre-crisis years that relied on indifference to where growth originated , how sustainable it was , and who profited from it .
cambridge – in a euphoric moment following the collapse of the soviet union , few would guess that ukraine , an industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural resources , would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity ) over the next three decades . following its targeted killing by the united states of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , as they did before the global financial crisis . after all , why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks commit to this odd financial intermediation that represents a major cost , because the private funds ’ yield is larger than that of reserves ? here , too , currency appreciation already occurs in the us , pushed through massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and can already be said to have been over-extended ( for example , in brazil ) . now , consider other major emerging markets as well . the result , after all , is rather paradoxical : the private funds that flow to these countries are recycled to american treasury securities through the investment of accumulated reserves .
central banks were forced to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities to a broader range of institutions than at any time in the past . that made the crisis more severe than almost any time since the end of world war ii , and has led to the risk of major financial crises . the ultimate blow came when interbank lending , which is back at the heart of the financial system , was disrupted , because banks had to husband their funds , and were unable to trust their counterparties . the asset-backed commercial paper market had to inject an unprecedented amount of money , and the special-investment vehicles , established by banks , to retrieve their balance sheets , could no longer obtain outside financing . credit expansion now must follow a period of contraction , because some new credit facilities and practices are unsound and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s greatest problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , from which he withdrew the united states – have remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the deal , and to doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to abide by it . the european signatories have established a special mechanism to ease trade and entrepreneurship with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its rivals .
in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . firms that provide these panels would , of course , also benefit enormously from tapping this huge new market . clearly , firms that provide those panels would benefit enormously from tapping this huge new market . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people are paying some of the highest energy prices . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technology .
the wealthiest 10 % of people account for roughly 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their emissions . that process has been unfolding for centuries , but accelerated in recent decades as a selection few gained ever-larger portions of total global wealth and political clout . today , just 100 corporations generate 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . even the ipcc included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . unwilling to counter those that destroy our planet , political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere .
and if growth decelerates because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . as a result , imports account for 15 % of us gdp , and house is responsible for 11 % of global gdp . allow some substitution away from the more expensive imported good , and the number drops below 1 % . moreover , foreign central banks can do likewise . multiply $ 0.10 ( a hypothesized tariff ) by the fed at about 1.5 % .
the bigger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the right to respect citizenship , and the public good . suppose that the government makes it right 19 times out of the 20 , when it relies on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities to muzzle the people ’s citizenship . and yet simply revoking citizenship do not address the problem of leaving at great a suspected terrorist who might then conduct assault elsewhere unless , as with sakr , it is slavishly killed . if that were the case with the decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen had been stateless . the ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any public evidence is one reason why a government might prefer to be arresting and trying the terrorism suspects .
in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . as old fossil-fuel plants age and flaring down , they should replace clean power generation on a competitive basis , through renewable-energy auctions . governments and businesses together should fund new research and development aimed at delivering low-cost solutions . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower the cost of renewable energy systems further , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses like electric vehicles , electric heating , and a new hydrogen economy . as old fossil-fuel plants age and are shut down , they should replace clean power generation at competitive prices , through renewable-energy auctions .
in an alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might finally prove too unwieldy to be workable . they have development problems , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation with a substantial stake in the way post-wwii global institutions and rules and rules should be reshaping . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the ruble ( the brics , minus russia ) . the bottom line , although is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will act as a catalyst for new thinking about global challenges . the bottom line , although it may be that russia ’s looming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges .
other components of the stimulus went to individuals , but because of the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfer payments and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . it was too little to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . the goal was to stimulate portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting surge in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending . much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed enhanced spending by state governments that would pay out in other ways . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policies , ” ” with the resulting increase in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . despite diverse starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the netherlands have this in common : they prefer to see the euro as a cap stone within constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to a closer union . public rejection of the euro in september 2000 hinged on a failure by europe ’s supporters to explain the gap between this unchallenged policy and full european participation . indeed , danish voters saw the bulk of the benefits of eventual euro membership already receive , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged link first to the dm , then to europe , over the last 15 years . as a result , denmark might be the last for a vote but not necessarily to join .
conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must move first toward denuclearization before any round of economic assistance is offered in place . but there is no reason why an international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . on the contrary , winning north korea ’s assent over denuclearization may not be impossible , given the absence of far-reaching domestic change . to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . we need not assume that these goals can not be pursued simultaneously .
at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive division conflicts . and no one should doubt that france and its voters mean what they say . what once was the relationship among the equals gave way to a face-off between debtors and creditors . the mutual mistrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably damage the soul of both the union and the european project as a whole .
unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps -- like that taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the online browser market , by pouring a fortune to create its internet explorer , and then by distributing it to free -- the first firm to establish the dominant market position will reap high returns as long as its industries lasts . the version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; it is the simplest to figure out how to use , the simplest to find support , and the one that works best with other products ( which are obviously designed to work best with this or not ) . moreover , the higher-scale information goods produced by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and those of consumers also have far greater value to consumers . the larger the market , the greater its cost advantage for consumers . inside a section of a bigger “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and consumer economies of scope , a firm that directs the market share gains an almost overwhelming advantage .
that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority should be to establish safe and legal pathways for refugees to reach europe . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europeans ( by allowing it to vet applicants fully ) . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and it should implement organized ways to facilitate its entry . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant must be accepted .
three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say the quality of life there is an excellent or good thing ; 40 % say that working with others in their communities is the most important thing they can do . as an editorial at the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed for domestic policymaking , not easy . ” citizens ’ behavior does not appear to have changed as dramatically as has their responses to poll questions . indeed , in recent years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of opinion in the american public would suggest . the situation has been exacerbated by the post-2008 economic downturn .
following its targeted killing by the united states of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . it is iran ’s distinction with an enormous difference . targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . new york – history at any moment can be understood as a snapshot – telling us where we are , or as a moving image , telling us not only about where we are but on an all-out war .
for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project to provide on-demand helicopter transportation leverages the city of america ’s well-known innovative capacity , while addressing congestion . likewise , innovation may drive pollution abatement in the first place . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing equitable access to services among residents , should subsidize the central government . this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that an approach can lead to desensitization . awareness is the third pillar of a “ tackling air pollution ” strategy .
meanwhile , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall agreement – could be restarted . a saudi protectorate may be the key to reaching that . perhaps , but so far conventional solutions have proven unworkable , even disastrous . everything else has already failed , perhaps becoming the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
and it would have the added merit of enlightening the german public on the true purpose of relief operations . first , the european financial stability facility must serve to save the banking system , just as eu member states do . bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it under the hands of national authorities , would form a fundamental improvement that will help restore confidence . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , given that any amount used for recapitalization or banking supervision would make reduce the pool of necessary assistance to governments . this would allow sovereign-debt debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis .
third , without effective and responsible opposition , governments may be tempted to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary regard , but does not hate . in that case , the leaders of the conservative party ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s far-right component are probably speculating that they can dispense with the offered disciplined support of prime minister david cameron and his policies , because the labour party can never have won under corbyn , in any case . while nobody knows that corbyn ’s position will occupy that question , one can only speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses backing him , might decide that the eu is a wealthy person ’s club , thereby precluding a much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . second , without effective and responsible opposition , governments may be arrogant , careless , focused on their own supporters .
the american government felt it had a soft hand , because it was n’t ready to let aig default on any one of its obligations . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , with the us government essentially granting substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . the bailout was brought down by aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . when some of these parties refused to do so , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations fully . at that point , the american government felt that it had a weak hand because it was n’t ready to let aig default on any one of its obligations . at that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take on a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , to accept a discount on the amounts owed
at last , the world must recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s completely dashed peace process . israel has long decided that it has no interest in rerenewing its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things all the more clear . gaza is ruled by a wholly hostile regime . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks , as well as for continuing a rocket fire at intra-continental civilian targets .
by the late 1970s , growth started to decelerate in many advanced western economies ; us president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that super-charged activity . human lives had become markedly more productive , and life expectancies rose dramatically . by the end of the 1970s , growth had started to slow across many advanced western economies ; then-american president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that super-charged activity . now , technological innovation and demographics is headwind , not tailwind , rising growth and financial engineering can not save the day . looking at the global human story , per capita income has grown at more than 50 % between 1800 and 1900 , at which breakthroughs have been lost in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation have fundamentally reshaped societies .
the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as the ldp ’s secretary general , is the exemplar of this muddled legacy . both parties include the conservatives and the liberals , defense hawks , and the doves . japan ’s main policy inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because parties ’ divisions are really devoid of any consistent ideological and political differences . japan appears to be doomed to being able to tolerate chronic and nonsensical political trench warfare until some kind of crisis force the political party ’s realignment along the ideological lines . the sad likelihood that the ldp will reform or that the dpj develops into the responsible governing party in the foreseeable future is slim .
likewise , a motley crew of rebels would have to support the formation of a caretaker government that would seek an extension of brexit , call the general election , and perhaps also legislate for a second referendum . that would require a conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( fdp ) , and the labour party that quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind it , a tall order . but bringing down the us government would not be sufficient to stop a no-deal brexit . and , because his suspension of parliament has outraged rebel conservatives , who had previously balked at bringing down their own government , a no-confidence vote now would have been a heightened possibility of succeeding . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government .
curiously , the irs decides not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip profits . these gains should , therefore , be taxed in the us . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to allow it to profits from apple ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ip rights , for which it pays a miniscule tax to its irs . this arrangement has also required the usually vigilant american internal revenue departments to play along . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s ’s ’s ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , whereby it relies on research and development , conducted entirely in the us ( much of it underpinning federal government finance ) .
this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage and produces the electoral polarization upon which the pekos fed . starkly antagonistic pronouncements and positions have tended to gain the most exposure in the world . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by the modern news media , which , scrambling to audience share , streamline , and sensationalize issues . this has empowered ( or maintained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . this is an undeniably effective political strategy .
britons had their say during this summer about whether they wanted gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) products in their fields and food . this suggestion may be amusing during a child , but there is nothing amusing when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complicated policies involving science and technology . to gauge public opinion in line with the decision scheduled for later this year on whether to allow commercial planting of gm crops , the british government sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public debate around the country . local governments and other organizations have held hundreds of additional public encounters . chief among the british debates foundation , the professor malcolm grant , referred to them “ a unique experiment to discover what ordinary people really think once they have heard every argument . ”
and , with public-opinion polls revealing that an important minority of europeans is falling into line with putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato seems to be making real headway . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders , who want to return to business as usual with russia , and the academic apologists for the soviet union , who , just 25 years after his collapse , see a chance for vindication . in fact , the kremlin is funding many of these parties . today , european governments appear willing to allow putin to buy the votes with whom he would destroy the eu . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes .
at the same time , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels continues to rise , driving up the value of land , a fact that has not escaped international investors ’ attention . in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares every day . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil ; in many places , a cloudburst is all that it takes a soil to wash it . according to the world bank ’s estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land grabs by millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people – have been plagued by large-scale investment . at the same time , inappropriate agricultural practices belie the blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soils and alter their structure .
convinced that history will judge the us president by its success in containing the iranian threat , broder also assumes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to construct international alliances aimed at putting pressure on defiant states . an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as the primary terror attack , the invasion of an ally in the gulf , or the disruption of the free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . that is a curious idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars merely compounded america ’s weaknesses . the iranian regime is far too astute at crossing any one of these red lines .
in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and does n’t count as expenditures – continues to impede the investments required to modernize public-sector enterprises , and placed a major roadblock in the way of land reform . the imf ’s economic framework still does n’t offer for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in a downturn . while germany ’s president is n’t supposed to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day management , his voice will no doubt prove influential . it is here that germany should take pause and reflect the record . for starters , when the government borrows to buy land , it treats debt as a debt , but a offsetting transaction when it sells land through a mortgage efficiently goes unattended .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as america ’s president , but the questions about russia ’s electoral interference will not go away anytime soon . in the us , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion is that , by aiding trump , the kremlin has been advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not completely convincing . to be sure , it is not hard to imagine why putin has favored trump over his adversary , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hope for an outcome and going along great torlengths , and incurring great risks , in order to help trump get it there . yet one key question often looms over the fray : why did russian president vladimir putin manage to do so ?
nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in reconciling vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances india ’s ease of doing business , while targeting improved delivery mechanisms to deal with welfare regimes . it ’s fair to say that the usually staid statistics department stole thunder from this year ’s budget . moreover , the country is projected to grow at 8-8.5 % per year over the next fiscal year . it is fair to say that a typically green-energy statistics department has stole the thunder from this year ’s budget .
japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth had achieved its objective , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us simultaneously used the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and a third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . after its imperialist failure greater east asia co-prosperity scheme ( which had a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized its military power and relied on a strategic alliance with the us . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , spending substantial resources to make itself attractive overseas . in its first decades , communist china built its military power and simultaneously used the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and a third world solidarity to cultivate allies abroad .
to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw ” even tough bones – that is , overcome the vested interests that resist change . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on that progress , agreeing to stay ahead of the momentum for reform . regulatory reforms are starting to alleviate shadow-banking risks ; after all , even some ghost towns are being revived over market forces . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have dropped dramatically since the beginning of this year , with the authorities seeming well positioned themselves to navigate the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as it has drawn a retired member of the politburo standing committee , china ’s most powerful body .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
this means , first and foremost , that they set their performance targets . in keeping with the spirit of the moment , governments introduce entrepreneurial criteria for measuring efficiency -- as well as “ success , ” more broadly -- on public services . waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by one-third within the next two years . so ministers proclaim that street crime can be halved by next spring , or that every generation raises to universities up to 50 % in the next five years . this method of governance makes it seem that , at long last , we can hold politicians accountable by setting whether targets were reached or not at all .
this helps to explain why , with more than half of his term left , the man who ran a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds up a mere 7 % popularity ratings today – the lowest of any peruvian leader since the 1980 ’s . toledo assumed the presidency plans to dismantle the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administrations and end the reign of his crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . peru ’s president , alejandro toledo , invented a new extreme sport , the soccer game in which he is the sole player . rather than kicking the ball to victory , he aims to ensure that his opponent scores . toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest officials to prison – words that had captured the imagination of peruvians yearning to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
in 2004 , soon before the election , osama bin laden unleashed a video tape that could help president bush defeat senator john kerry . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were all the more useful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry has possibly been . another event that might turn the tables is the “ october surprise ” ” ” associated with terrorism , which might shift the agenda from a financial crisis to security , republican members of the republican party ’ stronger tune . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debate with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . a flaw in the us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as occurred with president gerald ford in his debates with jimmy carter in 1976 .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? that search , after all , threatens to divide within the nation ’s elite . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into politics bring about an ideal solution to the problem in which putin ’s heir apparent ? so why not elect a man like lugovoi who truly represents what the elite stands for ? that quest , after all , threatens to divide the nation ’s elite .
erecting trade barriers , engaging with digital mercantilism , and generally undermining the liberal world order , will severely hurt the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help coal miners in west virginia . such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . in fact , the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 relies entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . the un sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , designed to eliminate extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 , rely entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . the powerful will always manage , but the fragile will carry the burden of a nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization .
without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . others argue that spurring the innovation needed to reach high-income status requires the state to be less like a market participant and more like referee , regulator , and arbiter of economic and social priorities . moreover , the chinese state has come to resolve coordination challenges that are not easily or efficiently handled through decentralized markets , particularly in the developing world , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may be at different stages of development . state involvement is also needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not account for . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must maintain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability required to sustain economic development .
egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will surpass 11 % of gdp this year . yet the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund loan . almost all of egypt ’s political players , like the rest of arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but economic urgency does not translate into policy responses that have been painstakingly sluggish or non-existent . the government ’s reduced fuel subsidies last year was not followed by additional reforms ; and a demanding tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that , among the almost one-half reduced public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector wages cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . how many poor children will suffer , or will die , from lack of food and health care ? and yet that could very well happen in the us . how many poor children miss out on education either because teachers are absent because of low wages or simply because poor children are forced to work to supplement their family incomes ? these adjustment measures are often taken without careful consideration for their socioeconomic consequences .
the first scenario is bleak : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , surges of political discontent , and arrivals become increasingly frustrated with its plight . indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . if , at worst , a terrorist attack were to occur – especially one that could , to some extent , unite refugees , nationalist-populist reactions would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society . any steps that they take to root are taken to suppress that frustration embolden right-wing populists and could lead to violence on either side . an entire world has an important stake in which scenario prevails .
by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak ’s loyalists , some riding camels or horse , to charge in cairo ’s tahrir square and launch thousands of anti-government protesters , was a classical “ military ” as the government ’s ” move . successful political transitions also help if more and more citizens come down to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition . what is already clear is that the interests of the “ military as institution ” depend on the army ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to establish much greater separation from the regime . against this background , securing mubarak ’s immediate resignation depends on his army ’s capacity to establish a much greater separation from the regime . at the same time , a democratic transition requires that the army play a more active part in protecting the protesters .
evidently , american policymakers have become increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or bring its own tormentors to justice in the us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both international and domestic political attacks . but does uganda ’s operation , following so closely on libya ’s intervention to bring its own tormentors to justice in american courts ) , such a role would have been vulnerable to both international law and domestic political attack . indeed , at the same time , there will be working in close collaboration with ugandan forces . nevertheless , the degree of american cooperation with the icc has far exceeded even the constructive role that the obama administration has proposed .
one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes place them at the very top of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope they will get to the top 1 % of their income someday . so why do n’t americans feel all the more alarm at their country ’s rising income inequality ? deep in the core of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : the belief that the future will be brighter than the present one ; that what you accomplish with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves instead of the state ; that people can cross their oceans and mountains to make because of themselves and their better lives ; and that those who succeed so not through luck and corruption through advancement and industry . part of the reason that they fail is that the majority of americans do not recognize what is going on ? these are n’t americans ’ beliefs about their country ’s rising income inequality ?
stockholm , our generation has a unique opportunity to do this . they emerged from the largest summit within the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in new york , followed by the largest consultation of the un has ever committed to pursue . that ’s the course that world leaders set when they met at the un in new york on september 25 to adopt the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere and to provide energy for all . if we set our brains on that course , we could be the first in human history to abandon our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no loss of poverty , and no loss of biodiversity .
the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , became the object of conspiracy theories and a target of intensive harassment after it is present at two terrorist attacks in one of the remaining weeks . in particular , women and minorities become victims of online harassment , but anyone may be targeted at all costs . victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , with many , with a sense of safety and even self-worth eroded , remove themselves from social media altogether . so the noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices defeat , even if it delivers clever and nuanced perspectives that can truly enrich public discourse . unless an algorithm does the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often take another step in directing hateful and threatening speech at whomever they choose .
they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden . africans do n’t vote ; they do n’t buy us products ; they do n’t risk violence . few wealthy countries do a better job than america . africans do n’t vote ; they do n’t buy us goods ; they do n’t risk violence . i single out america because it ’s unique in its neglect , but because it ’s unique in its capacity to lead .
krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes the crash to “ irrationality , ” ” ” which , as cochrane emphasizes , is no theory . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate has become all the more even . in my view , keynes ’s major contributions to economic theory were to highlight the “ extreme precariousness ” of the basis of knowledge upon which our prospective yield estimates must be made . hence , putting it into effect 1932 may now be “ no escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression , ” except through outright state intervention to encourage and subsidize new investment levels , which is what the obama administration rightly does . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and insecurity .
the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the consequences of climate change – including extreme weather , changing temperature patterns , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenest by a global poor who have also benefited the least from the economic activities they cause . indeed , their options sometimes seem mutually exclusive , ensuring the decisions of which path to take exceedingly challenge . that is the case , from the perspectives of this archbishop and the former finance minister , with the world ’s ’s ’s response to climate change to climate change . sometimes , however , the moral rectitude and economic interest merge exposes the opportunity that should not be missed . cape town – nowadays , people are too often forced to choose between actually doing what is morally right and to do what economic good .
he was the consummate artist of the french scene , a chameleon beamed out on satellite tv , dripping with fake swedish and real glitz , an artist who , like a novelist , confessed as a way of lying . hallyday was the children of a generation that followed america ’s gis in paris , and that has invented for itself an american ascendance . and on that day , he became so well lamented that his absence so well seemed like part of a show , somehow making us all but forgotten that he is no longer with us . abiding in each of us have been the johnny that move us all around : young spent with a traveling act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a character out of modiano , who , like the novelist , pawned the gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then there was the ’60s rocker with the eye of a sad wolker and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in the rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it appears to condemn him to be able to live on the fringes of every form of excess .
job insecurity back then was mostly unknown , and mass poverty disappeared . moreover , post-wwii capitalism maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . the keys to this era of growth and happiness were the powerful social-security system , and the primarily keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies of any of the world ’s great states . it was , of course , subject to ups and downs , but were not subjected to financial crises of the type that we see regularly these issues today . above all , each advanced economy pursued policies aimed at providing high wages , ensuring high consumption , and thus rapid growth .
in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would have been no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . that appears to reflect an attitude expressed by cameron and former german chancellor of the exchequer george osborne , that helped set the stage for brexit . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguities . we have an interest , and , but not absorbed , the costs . solidarity ( at least the kind of cost money ) stopped at the english channel .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran , and on other governments in the future to reassure and account for its protesters ’ safety . in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow up , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may not yet be arrested or have worse off . natan sharansky maintained that tactic , the west monitor and call for accountability by individual internal dissenters , has helped break up the soviet union . barack obama claims that america “ stands with ” those who advocate free assembly . that will be welcome news to the people who live under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by the american people , as well as to opposition leaders and us-supported prisoners journalists in those countries for having carried out just such protests .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to solidify the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for similar reasons . russia should also be treated as a major power , implying consultations on important global issues . losing a country and a special eu place in the world are the kind of trauma that could lead to the rise of extreme and potentially violent nationalism .
whatever the case , for the brazilian left ’s key leaders , including rousseff , we have become part of the solution , not the fundamental problem . perhaps the greatest is not always the rule of law on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a company that fails or a polity that implodes . but a consensus has emerged in brazil as a moment when the left can neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency has failed to challenge that outlook . as it stands , investors are taking on all kinds of risks . the consensus may have reflected lula ’s success ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies worldwide , and brazil ’s middle-class growth .
products will not need to be made in those factories , and then shipped to buyers or to inventory centers . recycled materials need not deliver centralized processing centers , and then forwarded to factories . one big loser in that world will be the freight enterprise ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s diminishing income , not just apple . when things do get there , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation diminishes dramatically .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which entailed the development of high-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of advanced fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural output worldwide . now , surmounting these challenges will not be easy . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion . yet chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries hit by crop scarcity and food-price volatility . achieving food security means ensuring that all people have entirely consistent , affordable access to proper nutrients , despite land and water constraints , and increasing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes .
indeed , for many years now , erdoğan ’s domestic critics decry what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” . turkey , not the european union , is currently shaping its presence felt globally . in reality , turkey needs europe just as much as europe needs turkey . but the course of history can change fast . europe is for turkey ’s “ principle of moderation ” and an enticement to stay democratic .
on the other hand , experience suggests that governments often struggle to align public expenditures with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats , until they hit a crisis tipping point . that is just over 0.5 % of annual us military budgets of roughly $ 718 billion . in fact , the past year , some 580,000 cancer deaths far exceed the number of combat deaths , on average , in world war i , the korean war , the vietnam war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . more people have died of cervical cancer in the past year than in fighting the us . yet government expenditure on cancer averages about $ 4 billion per year .
i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what went wrong on that dark day . i hoped that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , to ask the big question , “ why has about 15 of our young men engaged in so brutal a way ? ” so far , we are no closer than we were following an attack on that question because we ca n’t even find our nerve to ask . dealing with that question is becoming increasingly frustrating to me as i have been running out of plausible explanation . a journalist visiting saudi arabia ’s kingdom recently asked why five out of six students he interviewed at king saud university still believe that al qaida was not responsible for any attacks on the world trading center and the pentagon in america last year ?
top incomes in these countries resulted largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work . moreover , income inequality widened , with the global phenomenon the increasing concentration of wealth at the very top highly pronounced in many arab countries . whereas tunisia was the extreme case of a regime furthering the economic interests of a small clique of insiders , the pattern was widespread . there is an obvious political need for an inclusive growth strategy in which inclusiveness is the centerpiece , not the afterthought . that is why the knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription that is more liberalization and privatization is good for the arab world in 2012 .
trump ’s protectionist policies thus call into question the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950 ’s . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , implying that it is acutely vulnerable to the trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by the major trade partners . but that is no longer the case , either . indeed , trump ’s recent activism comes not just from trade , but from america ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries are more connected to the postwar order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system .
during macron ’s first five-year term , he should focus on raising france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , and reduce the unemployment rate to below 6 % . france has some of the highest labor costs for hourly employees , and a natural consequence is tepid hiring . with inequality also rising , many french are rightly angry that labor is taxed much more than capital gains do . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs . the simplest approach would be to focus on where france underperforming relative to other eu countries .
based on these figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will be spending 70 % of its reserve fund accrued over the past decade , or at that , when oil prices were high . nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at around 80 % , at 9 % . in early december , putin signed the 2015 federal budget that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . if low oil prices persist , and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash by late 2016 . but collapsing oil prices , coupled with the severe economic sanctions imposed by the american and european commission , mean that russia will spend 70 % of the world ’s reserve fund accrued over the past decade or so when oil prices were high .
given that libra will assume the form of private money connected to a basket of stable major currencies , how might that work in practice ? as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to sending money to be just as easy as sending a text message . ” if argentina ’s people could switch from their pesos to a basket of stable currencies with one touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour in that safe asset at the first sign of trouble in their home economy ? a standard “ efficiency-enhancing market ” analysis does n’t help us answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . but , of course , libra is sold as much more than that .
should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson induce investors to lose faith in american financial assets at some point in time , a rising euro would help shield european interest rates from the consequences . this is a large plus for sustaining an economic recovery ; if it does not succeed , at least for now . the yield on the ten-year german bond that may have been higher because of the deterioration in inflationary expectations during this period , barely moving . the recently soaring euro has also helped hold down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated slightly in the euro-zone . during april , the rise of inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation took more or less concurrently .
italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , yet scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to abrogate the union ’s 1707 act , with the future determining a scottish referendum in late 2014 . when stressed , large surface bifurcates in great chunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller , smaller , smaller fragments . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with the future determined by a scottish referendum in 2014 . when stressed , large surface bifurcates in great chunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller , smaller fragments .
once that trust breaks down , the bad things happening there . money , therefore , is about trust , without which no society can function . just as we obey our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , entrust our careers and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks because we believe that their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their entrepreneurial practices . we do not grow up thinking about the working of the horse and the liars . as soon as that trust breaks down , bad things happen .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , rather than to rage – in sharp contrast to , say , yugoslavia ’s violent breakup . despite rising to power with the backing of the kgb , sanders did not surrender his ideas processes to that machine , in ways that president vladimir putin clearly possesses . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure might not have been spared ; but , thanks largely to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise was rather peaceful . like francis and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer . likewise , far from seeking to secure the mold of a democratic machine , sanders worked to bring the party back “ to life ” to the social democratic left where that belongs .
that leaves developing countries facing hard choices : will they be better off accepting the crumbs that they are being offered to them ? those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining in bad faith also have a powerful case . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators throw up big numbers , when describing the gains from even an imperfect bargain . whatever economics takes for granted may be harder today than ever : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates can punish governments that embrace what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . america ’s ’s agricultural subsidies do just that .
princeton – recently , physicists at the great hadron collider ( lhc ) , the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) , announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was actually higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers predicted that lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that swallow the earth in the space of just a few months . to be sure , latter-day nostrums have neither the first nor the last in their species ; we have made good sense . four years ago , the doomsayers predicted that lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that will swallow the earth in the course of a few months . latter-day nostradamuses have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , on high energy-particle physics experiments .
riding on the plan ’s success , his architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister , was reelected president ( he left in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concerns about price stability . monetary policy had long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980 ’s and 1990s , successive governments attempted to tame hyperinflation , which peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 . today , as advanced-country central bankers fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once more forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and returning to high inflation . the introduction of the “ real plan , ” ” ” ” ” launched in 1994 , did manage to suppress annual price growth to the “ “ acceptable ” ” ” of 22 % by the subsequent year .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disaster in many financial institutions and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they had done a short time before . those who think that globalization , technology , and the market economy will solve the world ’s problems looked subdued . most chastened by all were the central bankers . not only were the bankers at davos doghouse this year ; they also include their regulators , central bankers .
now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone ’s periphery , government defaults threaten to take off big banks . that holds down interest rates on the short run , but creates even larger potential losses in the case of potential insolvency . banks and politics have become deeply intertwined in all of the advanced economies , too . the european central bank has provided massive amounts of emergency “ liquidity ” ” ” financing to banks that it uses to purchase even more government debt . diamond discovered that , ultimately , the politicians of trump , at least in the united kingdom .
for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to wasteful and inefficiencies in existing manufacturing systems . provided that the government continues its comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy , including improved health-care access , financial services , and education , brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure investment and governance between the public and private sectors , with the goal of crowding in the latter . even so , brazil has a long way to go . provided that the government continues its pursuit of a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved health-care access , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the remainder . according to the most recent data running through july or august for most countries , there are “ merely ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line at that figure ) . during the period following the oil-price shocks of the 1970s until the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of countries recorded inflation levels above 10 % . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the green line ) , in 2015 , is higher than that of countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) . venezuela ( which has not published the official inflation statistics this year ) and argentina ( which have not released reliable inflationary data for a few years ) figure prominently in that group .
for the most part , the quick fixes that they have imposed have failed to deliver have been extremely successful . in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply let universities deteriorate . overcrowded classes in often under-performing physical surroundings without the necessary facilities have led to ever longer study periods , impaired class quality , and much unhappiness among both students and professors . on the european continent , this has been happening since the 1970s . on the european continent , this has happened since the 1970s .
for years , they have been trying to express their grievances through peaceful means . like the political activist in the final days of yugoslavia , i tried to build upon the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the need for kosovo to liberate itself from milosevic ’s grip was so evident for more than a decade . two million kosovars were suffering from milosevic ’s rule in each aspect of his life , from basic safety to education . only the bloodshed of serbs could seal such grievances together in peaceful means .
but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt returning power to the military and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was its only achievement . at the same time , efforts at nation-building along secular lines were mirrored by egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , which resulted in the founding of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby cleaning up the path for what would be the most secular , fairest elections in any region held by the country . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world involved neither the political inclination , instead reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 .
worldwide , 300 million tons of meat are produced annually , and the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) estimates that the annual sum will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 , as long as demand continues to grow at the current rate . far too large amounts of meat consume are produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and responsible social conditions . berlin – the way we eat in the industrialized world – is inimical , unjust , and unsustainable . and now our industrial model for producing meat-eating is moving to the global south , in particular india and china , where meat use is soaring among these countries ’ growing emerging middle classes . such large amounts of meat can be manufactured only on an industrial scale , and at high social , political , and ecological cost .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking have been us taxation , regulation , business and infrastructure . though i regarded the latter space under less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth . the third area is highly significant , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so daunting . having studied the former in detail , i found tax cuts in order to be a positive contributor to economic growth . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : the infrastructure program currently is not a piece of the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china are beginning to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle . as gordon observes , long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization , a trend that could be progressing for at least another decade or more in china . but there will be times when this tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies .
by contrast , the us oversight board has recently certified the new fiscal plan and an agreement with future sales-tax revenues ) to accounts for more than one-third of total debt under the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort that relies on commonwealth assessment ’s unrealistic economic conditions . but the plan was projected to depress economic activity even further , and has failed to lay the groundwork for calculating how much debt-restructuring puerto rico needs . the sad fact is that the opportunity created by puerto rico ’s fiscal boat was not seized upon . at $ 17.8 trillion , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan and deals with forward-looking sales-tax revenues ) for over one-third of total us debt in its new fiscal plan .
we raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about by changes in government policies , raising billions of dollars to respond to their basic needs . humanitarian efforts continue to be strengthened , including through the rapid new financing mechanism , the un central emergency response fund itself . the achievements are notable , if insufficient , are notable . ten years on , what impact have the principles upon the displaced people ’s lives ? this has helped to rescue countless lives , too .
andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen ’s era , was blunt in his moral judgments . we can tailor that judgment to a man or a woman possessing a $ 30,000 watch or buy similar luxury goods , like a $ 12,000 handbag . “ a man having dies the wealthy , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ would die disgraced . ” wearing an interview that costs 200 times as many as one that does a better job of keeping time tells something else , even while calculating a people that does not qualify for a relatively poor country . in essence , such a person feels like saying ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or only plain selfish . ”
on the contrary , parfit argued , aspirations can be irrational . he shows that both a “ total ” and a “ average ” ” answer have a paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . in that monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea , almost universally assumed economists , and many philosophers from david humor onward , that the role of reason is to tell us how to get just what we want but not telling us what to want . but then , so does every other answer , proposed since parfit revived the problem , with other philosophers starting to offer his own solutions . if reasons and individuals could easily have turned out on three separate books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , while the third , in print when parfit died , just appeared .
there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , like zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos . by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities as much as we do . furthermore , we need to crack down on mental-health inequity , a frequently ignored matter . that is often a problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often confront the highest barriers to get care , partly owing to a lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . seeking mental health should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , diabetes , or heart status .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack as a result of dubai ’s takeover is small . but the damage inflicted by an attack may be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons to america . the american public understands this , too , even if their president does not . because of that , americans can not afford to take even the minutiae with their beasts , the implications of error can smuggle to contemplate . should the harm inflicted by a terrorist attack also be slight .
first , the revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military interventions in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and northern africa . third , in a major speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived the debate over transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit , in the united states in 13 years , takes place not only in an election year , but also in us president barack obama ’s own hometown . second , the international financial crisis will have an immense impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to transform chicago into a high-profile summit within its own right .
yet smallholders can not ignore when they develop climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production , and provide up to 80 % of food supplies in the developing world . together , they manage vast areas of our planet , including about 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leading role in addressing the twin challenges of food security and ecological sustainability ? we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes . can we really count on more food , while protecting the natural environment ?
the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as did the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a proliferation of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions on food imports from europe and the us . one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from actually making investments in more than 40 industries designated to the us government ’s national-security critical role . this prohibition , while beneficial to industry insiders , has diminished russia ’s access to financial markets and , more critical , to new technologies that follow financial flows . lifting these restrictions would , not only provide an immediate boost to the economy , but would also boost long-term gdp growth .
during the brexit negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the brexit referendum , british prime minister david cameron won an opt-in clause in the eu ’s decision to move towards ever-closer union . the relationship between the eu and the uk has always been rather fraying . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union , ” which entails political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty , made no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership to prevent the deepening of european integration . to be sure , the relationship between the eu and the uk has always been fraying . should she dominate in the brexit referendum , and have persuaded voters to stay , she will send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians across eastern europe .
entrepreneurial majors should study economic and political history in order to avoid becoming blind determinists . business majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming blind determinists . and workers of the future will require ethics training , to help navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . educators prepare students for this future must start now . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights , so that they gain the insight that will be necessary to defend humans from the forces that might seek to transform individuals into disposable segments .
the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input and no right of appeal . in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating . sporadic complaints and warnings from above allow them to develop the counterintuitive sense of the boundaries of acceptable content , so they create shows that it is free from offending material from the start . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with the writers and producers themselves . serious breaches may come from reprimands or dismissals .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s government has decided to extend the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 , making the longest continuous session in the japanese parliament ’s postwar history . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills permitting a reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution that enables the country to play a larger role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . for the last 39 years , japanese representative to the g-7 focused on economic debates at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as industrialized countries surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and recommended action or , more often , inaction . abe ’s moves in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany to break with japan ’s tradition .
in february 1996 , kohl urged nato to introduce enlargement on hold until both the russian and american presidential elections passed . he assigned ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that talks not to be left in the hands of nato machinery on its own . this visit yielded another appeal not to rush into nato 's enlargement . in germany 's parliament , the chancellorship announced that yeltsin would " renew the necessary dialogue and tackle specific issues more urgently , like nato 's enlargement … and i have the ability to reach agreement with president clinton , president chirac , and prime minister strong now that the us will now refrain firmly from dealing with the important matter of nato-enlargement under some framework so that moscow does not feel like fiat acplcomi . " to underline this , putin 's first foreign-policy activity after his return from his summer vacations , in early september to an ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl had friendly relations .
only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic illnesses . because of this “ post-utopian ” values , which comprises a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and individual responsibility , the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that comprise a larger emphasis on individual liberty and individual responsibility . but , just as with any change of this magnitude , holdouts are emerging . at the same time , these changes are triggering changes in the human consciousness . in that world without a utopia , individual liberty provides the supreme value .
the stakes could not be higher . eurozone leaders now must aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . governments and the international financial community have a scrambles to craft solutions within a exceedingly tight political ( and economic ) constraints . london , the gravity of the euro crisis , has finally faded . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world today is rightly worried about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding , and securing – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” – that is , many around the world are presenting a very different question : what about the right to be seen ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already come to war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , yemen , and mexico . the swiss federal office also oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to a people that had lived with opiate dependency on a significant period . the swiss implemented methadone ’s programs and , in order to prevent the spread of hiv , they created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and established safe injections rooms on a massive scale . health professionals assumed the lead in a public government campaign – through " direct democracy " mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies that rely on scientific evidence for what works . health professionals turned their government into pragmatic eye .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological breakthroughs such as artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of our economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book humans need not apply : a guide for wealth and employment in an age of artificial intelligence has impressed me the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact is the ability to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading by becoming a micro second “ ahead ” of everyone else . soon , a new kind of strengthened uber could emerge , integrating cars , bus , ship , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new labor-market makers like uber , which is adequate every penny on the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily affordable water at home , and more than twice as many of them , a whopping 4.5 billion , lack of safely able sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling rivers . worldwide , health and conservation professionals need to collaborate more carefully to find these solutions , by persuading policymakers to pursue them . in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize investment and maximize complementarity . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vital . with a rising share of the world ’s population , including many in the same people , feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water provision , and health might not be more important .
indeed , big companies in nearly every field are vulnerable because startups become better equipped , more competitive , and able , like bigger companies , reach customers and users everywhere . this is an unwelcome evolution for software providers , whose entrepreneurial model relies heavily on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than electricity usage . firms across industries now need to invest in their understanding of new technologies , so that they prepare to seize opportunities or mount an effective defense quickly . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and continually assess how innovations impact the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools . moreover , disruptive technologies will create value to shift among the economy ’s industries , as occurred when television overtook radio or , more recently , when online media acquired predominance over print publication .
over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to set new global goals to be met by 2030 . over the past 22 years , the world has managed to nourish nearly two billion more people appropriately , no small feat . though the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than it did in 1991 , 209 million were starving . by 2013 , the share had dropped to just 13.5 % . the task totals for this generation , the greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete goals .
ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the rotten boroughs , and extended the franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley in their book the gilded age : stories of today . given their recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite grudgingly agreed to democratizing reform . the united states as well went , though a period of robbber-baron industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s . fifteen people were killed and many more wounded in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre .
while the defeated remain waged an economic campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party waged a culture war by exaggerating concerns about immigration , and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british malady : across the west , much of the public viewed globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face and , akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . now , moderate leaders need to respond not only to the economic discontent of the millions who are losing out , but also to politicians ’ cultural pessimism and the dismissal as they are “ “ “ “ in it ” only for themselves , giving succor to the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . but , thanks to farage , as well as the faragism that has taken over the governing conservative party , the victorious leave side waged a culture war by highlighting fears about immigration , and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control ” is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british malady : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , deprived of a people ’s face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train .
every firm and entrepreneurial association must decide the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many were contradictory and overlapping . ande proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution . it was a success , owing to strong public support for fighting corruption . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many were contradictory and overlapping .
in evicting that regime , we believed that this formulation of the absolutism was all dead . instead , those who benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the property they had stolen were inviolate . how did ukraine achieve that state of backwardness ? a year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what we stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , expelling state property , at its will . in the meantime , in the meantime , those who benefited from regime = s corrus insisted that their privileges on the properties they had stolen .
they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive exams in adulthood , and were more likely to be employed in higher-paid , skilled jobs . one community nearby had the same agenda , except that a micronutrient supplement was provided without a protein at all . moreover , health workers visited mothers during pregnancy and supplied free medical services . one community was provided with continual access to a micronutrient and protein supplement called atole . for children who received atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half .
poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed the communists to reclaim power . from day one , the coalition was riven by the feuds . the ministers had acted like adversaries rather than partners . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he abandoned poland , coalition members blamed " one another . "
the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are being animated not through utopia but through despair . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing . in that sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike that of french brexit , in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao . they were joined by an well-organized trade union that helped move into a critical mass , at least temporarily . though the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s defeat in cuba and mao ’s china .
and she has no doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s ’s ’s ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly the rights of women , which she fears would multiply . what strikes me most clearly are that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts , and the coming contest between islamists to outdo one another in a fundamentalist purity . she feels that , in acting as it has been true to be true about her most cherished values and beliefs . she recalls everything , and regrets nothing .
over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , adopting the eu ’s containment strategy . as numerous asian countries ’ largest trading partner , china will offer appealing trade terms to its neighbors , much as it did with singapore . indeed , even as china ’s ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours are already clear . faced with escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win the region ’s friends . by the most prominent feature , its most prominent is trade .
it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in the expectation of making a profit when its value continues apace . a speculator can “ “ “ short ” government ” by borrowing its current bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for just six months . i borrow that , at face value , € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for just six months . london – “ shorting ” – is a tactic well known among the financial cognoscenti . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i believe that the game will soon get up with greeks .
in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media , demanding that the us government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector . indeed , the lack of restrictions allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character ” sites , some of which were created with tacit support , and even funding , from security agencies or other official or political groups . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition reflected newly established web sites , some of which had been created with tacit support , and even financing , from security agencies or other official or political groups . indeed , the lack of restrictions allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish .
dozens of thousands of innocent people were killed , including one of the world ’s most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . other us leaders have proclaimed that the un should not abandon its mission . predictably , president bush has reiterated his determination to wage war on terrorism . the poison of terrorism has now ripped to the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi governing council . yet the bombing raises the political questions that demand answers .
to boost russia ’s political influence over the georgian separatist regions , gazprom , without regard for the troubles of seeking the two regions ’ sovereignty , would have begun to create a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia with each other directly . now russia threatens to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s province of kosovo as an independent nation . though there has been no interruption of gas deliveries from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system . but they are truly illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to grant russian passports to those regions ’ residents attests . to the extent that a majority of abkhazia and south ossetia have already ceded russian citizenship to russian citizenship , recognizing those two regions ’ sovereignty would be totally fictitious , and effectively , an interim measure on the road to their full annexation by russia .
so long as trump is good for business , they seem unconvinced that he is america ’s single biggest threat to america ’s psyche and values , and to its image and interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves to think that they could dominate their country ’s vulgar new chancellors . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and appearances , he remained the best defense against communism . the sad truth , many of today ’s elites apparently learned nothing from history , and think and act as if the interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . sure , they say , trump might just go very far with the chinese on trade , but at least he was asking them the right questions .
the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all of this . not only will it generate the administrative burden through additional expenses and bureaucratic hassles ; it is also raising the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most distinguished online firms . even more worryingly , this would open the door for eu provisions outlawing benign , low-risk data mining that is driving online advertising . online ads enable eu citizens to access information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for them straight and the amount spent on europe is growing fast . industry ’s income has been more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall european economy has stagnated .
but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation was provided to girls in eight schools , attendance has risen by an average of 17 % of the global-health community , to work together to address women ’s menstrual needs and girls everywhere ; there is no single solution to this global problem . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls are often missed because they lack access to clean-sanitary products . today , a bloody good period donates sanitary products , including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries , to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken , lest women and girls gain the sanitary products that they need at affordable prices .
for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could hit the law , rendering the efforts meaningless . but , for many of the revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack an tainted prosecutor and , therefore , politically costly , step towards breaking the impasse . he had already backed off twice : once in july 2012 , after abandoning his efforts , under pressure from the supreme national police council , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and once in a bid to remove a public prosecutor , by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step toward breaking the impasse . for example , a new law regulating the judiciary was a demand for revolution from its early weeks .
the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . in foreign-policy terms , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of the monroe doctrine , a nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere , aimed at keeping out of european competitors , in central and south america , to curb china ’s rising influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 has not been shared by the south african border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ has served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increased engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . moreover , it amounts to betraying america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . its foreign-policy review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield , low-yield ” nuclear devices to service a submarine equivalent in us power with those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
at the same time , the governance structures of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund need to be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such actions will prove futile in managing capital flows . policymakers in advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than on trying to treat symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . in other emerging markets as well , the key challenge will be to ensure that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . in other emerging markets , too , these institutions will remain ineffective in confronting the collective challenges associated with macroeconomic-policy spillovers and in delivering crisis insurance .
though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , much less undertake effective countermeasures . the latter pattern depressed incomes and youth growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class largely come from two factors : rapidly losing whites – and blue-collar routine jobs to automation , and shifting middle - and lower-value-added jobs to lower-labor countries . a drop in labor ’s bargaining power and falling real minimum wages may also have contributed to rising income polarization , though these are perhaps secondary factors . the result has been surplus labor conditions in the middle – and in lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to those in early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for an era ) even as the economy expands .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for a european central bank to act with a long-overdue review of its policy framework .
one factor is the willingness and capacity shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . but dramatic change has come with europe . one factor is the willingness and ability shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agendas . the goal of making the continent peaceful , entire , and free was largely realized . such scenarios were unimaginable until very recently .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . construction , for example , is almost complete on a rail line just through kenya ’s renowned nairobi national park , despite public outrage over a “ incomplete ” and inept ” ” ” ” environmental impact assessment .
after all , unlike other central banks , this must account for the preferences of 19 sovereign governments , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . today , and for the foreseeable future , as well as for the global economy , domestic inflation is becoming increasingly influenced by the globalized world , rather than local , development and finance ( in terms of ) , stability and fiscal policies are far more influential than monetary policy . in many ways , such measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to influence the real economy has declined . for the ecb , this generates an especially acute challenge .
looking at a fast-growing urban city like houston , texas , to see the real effect of a urban heat island . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching 40oc , a scorching heat that has affected not only the downtown area , but also obscured some 8,000 square kilometers . an even more dramatic increase is underway in tokyo , and this year is expected to occur . beijing is roughly 10 kilometers hotter than the nearby countryside in subsistence regions and 5.5 degrees celsius . today , the fastest-growing major cities are in asia .
a growing minority began pursuing intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms became new sources of community . and , as coworkers began to exercise together , enlightened employers came to see such recreating as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being . some people saw these changes occur and were worried about them . swedish one ’s brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption , often conspicuous consumption .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on the eu ’s proposed quotas . others want to flee the eu , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . according to the european council on foreign relations , 32 referenda are being enforced across 18 eu countries . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved particularly divisive . some , like the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s ’s lead and hold votes on eu membership .
he has said repeatedly that us exports are good for america : they create jobs . but us exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others that to lose us jobs . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he can certainly ask his audience to think about jobs in us cargo planes , freight trains , and trucks transporting imports to the american interior . but america ’s exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to his ability to telling others that they can lose their jobs . from the beginning of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been inadequate .
usury ( making money from money ) was an act of offense against god . it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . going to be seen as healthily promethean to turn wealth into money and to put it to work making more money because by doing that one benefits humanity . this inspired america ’s way of life , where money always talks . the end of capitalism means simply the end of an urge .
instead of focusing on treatment that works , the polish government opts for long-term rehabilitation centers – located in poland ’s depths , which carries little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , however , and usage tariffs have failed to fall . poland also opposes treating possession of even the smallest volume of drugs as criminal , as evidenced by the 60 % being sentenced for drug-related possession in poland . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted to imprison drug users . by driving users underground , criminalization contributes to a deepening public-health crisis .
frankfurt , the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . the unintended consequences of this policy become increasingly visible and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . crisis management has led to considerable market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer explainable by even fundamental economic data . key interest rates have remained close to zero for six years now . in fact , financial markets are inundated by liquidity .
the alliance has evolved into a kind of security-management organization , one that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and , in countries around the world , it is implementing tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising about how to use military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children . the threats have changed , becoming more global . in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union , and many others to police major sea-lanes threatened by pirates . in the indian ocean , nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against a grave , efficient , and cost-effective threat .
china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it mired in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to step up . while china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it mired in a deep environmental hole , trump has advocated an end to federal subsidies , which spur domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , such as $ 7,500 federal government tax credit . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the dying – and deadly – domestic production resuscitation . by promoting sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – by $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , anticipating an eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are throwing generous subsidies on home production .
the measure may also invite countries like the united nations to retaliate with distortionary measures , making them somewhat perilous . but calculating an appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . for example , it would necessitate the fiscal equivalent of regulatory cap . provided that it is indiscriminate , such border pricing would enhance global welfare , and are compatible with the rules of the world trade organization . furthermore , taxes would probably have regressive distributional effects , harming the poor countries the most .
moreover , article 138 would permit unified eurozone representation within the international monetary fund and the world bank . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty for the eu ’s functioning could be used to support their action.the extent of this provision , which says that , “ the [ european ] council of europe shall … adopts measures specific to [ european ] member states , ” and that “ only [ european ] member states … shall take on board with the votes ” is wide . eurozone countries , along with others willing to join the eu in the future ( the “ eurozone plus ” plus ” ) could simply decide to use legal means already at their disposal to enhance cooperation . the group could then expand cooperation across three other policy areas : sovereign states , with the help of a single european union ; with the creation of a european union , the eu could contribute to direct eu membership .
and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , warned that the ban would effectively transform judaism and islam into “ criminalized ” religions , ” because any practicing female circumcision might be subject to six years in prison . gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has a right to believe in what they want , ” but insists that , “ the rights of children come above right to believe . ” for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that circumcision is an element of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ a contravention [ of ] religious freedom . ” for example , some supporters of the ban argue that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that , “ no one is subjected to torture or ruthless , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment ” should be subjected to prison . complicating matters further , the two sides base their arguments on human rights .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major nation like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea that is weakly tied to the global economy . “ persistent engagement ” can , however , help deterrence in such difficult cases . they also should pay attention to mechanisms of entanglement and norms . entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of major states like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . “ entanglement ” mechanisms by a major state like china can not be used as well , they should pay attention to a state like entanglement and dissuasion in cyberspace .
here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness that ultimately determines the value added for goods and services . reaffirming a tighter , more rigorous stability pact also holds the imperative of achieving greater integration . moreover , if the eu is to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be resolved . nevertheless , more will be needed to restore financial stability – for example , enlarging the general firepower of the european financial stability facility .
shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . it ultimately is financed via retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital . in 2007 , the volume of shadow-banking transactions exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the finance stability board estimated that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with an american accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone for $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom for $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion .
there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east setbacks , but there are a few factors worth considering : the rise of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is mostly ineffective ; increasingly fuzzy lines between difficult allies and rigid adversaries ; and huge political differences between a centrist american president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s robust commitment to the conflict . but obama himself bears a large share of the blame ; he believes that it does not fall behind . in 2011 , he asserted that only both parties can ensure a successful outcome . clearly , the us can do little to resolve the conflict .
china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without trade originally fueled by labor-cost discrepancies . but that may well prove to be an extraordinarily good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurial , and uses the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in their infrastructure and skills . with wages in china now rising quickly , its labor-cost advantage has been fast diminishing . as economists like mit ’s ’s david autor have shown , the effects of this in the developed world may be both bad for certain kinds of workers and good for firms in earnings . in the future , however , that type of trade will probably become less important .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging and what does mean for the country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china are rooted in the country ’s total birth rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged over 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of statistics ( nbs ) suggest that the tfr fell to less than 1.5 for many years , and that the united nations secretary-general ’s just-published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , put it among the world ’s lowest birth countries . can – and should – anything be done , especially for a country ’s “ one child ” policy to slow the trend ? a long period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging and working-age growth is slowing .
after the monetarist approach failed , emerging and developing countries tended toward inflation targeting . but they repeatedly missed their targets . many then switched to the inflation target ; but they tend to miss such targets even more often than advanced-country countries do . until the monetarist approach failed , emerging and developing countries tended to target rates of inflation . the problem with these approaches to monetary-policy targeting is that while a particular numerical target may be reasonable when it is set , subsequent unanticipated developments often make targets hard to live with them .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign-debt procedures as soon as possible , thus preventing other sovereigns from becoming victims of debt mutualization . indeed , the dangers that are now confronting europe stem from socializing debts are far greater than those posed by just a potential financial crisis . borrowing to a friend would no longer be a friend . unless that wisdom is heeded , europe would be impossible to hold europe together . if the european union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national governments are to help one another in a depression , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian relief , without conditionality and without redemption .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . they are not making america great or even good ; they are making hungarian . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as rerespecting all over europe . trump and his advisers probably learned a lot from orbán about racist immigration policies , and about how to destroy the democrats . trump ’s republican party , for its part , has been quick to exploit similar tactics .
by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , beginning to capture the us department of justice and commit himself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along in his quest to erode the rule of law in america . making matters worse , orbán has honed hungary ’s civil service independence and thoroughly politicized the administration . just as trump has invoked economic pressure to bully the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described a campaign as “ the enemy of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing american state agencies , shutting them down the government , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to an honest , open debate about how to formulate and implement policy . trump is doing much the same thing , with an outcome that america ’s government now losing some 94 % of its regulatory court cases .
to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues , and the eu republish a map showing that munich is being squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing every additional data and claims by millions of rather dry , does n’t mean that you are brilliant . but it ’s not clear from ayyadurai ’s article which used data , and there was no validation of the model . instead , it implies that you made a mistake , in your program , assumptions , or inputs in data , are testable . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to predict location in the munich , and your program would tell you that it was squarely in mexico ’s gulf , right to florida , does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right away from florida . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work .
but , in the fall of 2008 , on the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state were not seen as creating a common bank-rescue fund . experience showed that only an acute crisis – amounting to 20 % of gdp – can compel europe ’s leaders to act together in a concerted effort . instead , they settled for a package of national measures to stabilize national banking systems , one by one . in other words : europe faces a fundamentally collective-action problem . the sum of a headline commitment was impressive , tied to 20 % of gdp .
then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil district . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo has largely prevailed . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became the independent state of bangladesh . following the civil war pitting the west against pakistan ’s bengali freedom fighters fueled a surge of sunni refugees in the east , india began supporting rebel-held groups there . both sides fought again in 1971 , though kashmir was not targeting .
moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and the canonical vaccination approach , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . treatments for tb require a minimum of three drugs that have administered more than six months or more . roughly 15 million people are suffering from the co-infection of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis ( tb ) , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . with the emergence of hiv infection suddenly out of control , making it even more worrying about the immune system , tb has been spreading , slowly but consistently , for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . whereas pandemics appear suddenly , spreading through the rate of hiv , and raising vast anxiety over an imminent threat , tb has been spreading , and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals .
continued progress toward a fiscal union would , ironically , make a political union seem increasingly unlikely for one simple yet important reason : france . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france has thwarted all attempts to pool europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for the west european defense organization . the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further do not end there . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european constitution that could have marked the beginning of the process of political unification .
this will not be easy , not least because of another new operational burden embedded in many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether it is legally mandated , to minimize financial vulnerability . micro-prudential supervision implies , above all , the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ independence , and policy conflicts , all of which may have an impact on financial intermediaries ’ behavior by encouraging them to assume greater risk . they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal , at least in theory , lowering borrowing costs ; in order to protect banks ( at least for some extent ) ; and in protecting its reputation . they know that their supervisor is having powerful tools at its disposal , for example , lowering borrowing costs , in order to protect banks ( at least for a while ) , and in strengthening its reputation .
compared to the developed world , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive companies . so , why does this not happen routinely in developing countries ? so , why does n’t that happen routinely in developing countries ? compared to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a very small number of large , productive firms . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , as increasingly productive firms should be able to deliver a better product at lower prices while doggedly workers with higher pay .
sir zhu was china 's jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric -- the man he celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence of performance . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most momentous moment in china 's recent history of boom and transformation , was the appointment of zhu rongji ( a pronounced man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance . as china 's new leadership team emerges , attention has focused on president jiang zemin 's successor . even before becoming premier , mr. zhu , as the president of china 's central bank , was well known to be the architect of china 's 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and a mastermind of its successful fight against high inflation . given the obvious significance of the post in recent years , the choice between mr. zhu 's replacement may be of even more fundamental significance than president jiang 's departure from center stage .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only around 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , with their combined market capitalization soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion in 2002 ( 2 % of the world ’s total ) by the end of 2009 , as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest sharing . but , in part , because several african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crunch , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems partly from the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . by 2050 , the combined gdp of brazil ’s top 11 african economies should have reached more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) .
but failure to devise mechanisms to allow migrants to exploit their capabilities has inflicted even more on the labor force . as a result , trained doctors should not be nudging into the residency rights and citizenship . establishing national , regional , and global standards will be no easy feat , but it is an absolute necessity . some countries are suffering as skilled workers emigrate when skilled workers emigrate . • prompt eligibility for an residency and for residency .
unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already holds a predictable core constituency , tied to around one-quarter of voters . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more dovish brand . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run up on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during a second-round runoff when he suggested that he would favors the shape of european governments . unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already holds a predictable core constituency , amounting to some one-quarter of voters . heading into the election campaign , fillon may be able to run on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot throughout the second-round run-off debates , when he has suggested that he favors forming a european government .
national media ’s narrative portraying the owsiak and the civic platform as guilty parties behind the adamowicz ’s murder will simply undermine the pis . kaczyński has shown repeatedly his impulsiveness . heads of state for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . he pursues power without first consider the implications for his action . generations of poles have taken part in charity ’s ’s fundraising drives .
new york – the latest fast-food hamburger you ate might have cost you next to nothing . in florida , the tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . but what did the tomato slice work on that burger cost the worker getting it there ? almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , cost may be shockingly high . appalling wages are just the start .
when xi first unveiled his slogan , after getting elected as the ccp ’s new secretary-general , he defined it in a simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic , point : china ’s dream of living equally good lives as everyone else in official political branding . unfortunately , china propagandists , who double as censors do , have a perverse ability to discredit anything they are trying to brand . xi has said little about the “ china dream ” since , raising his silence . when xi first unveiled his slogan after choosing as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic nature : the chinese dream of living equally good lives as everyone else in official political branding . whatever the new administration emerges as part of its ambitious effort to turn the “ china dream ” came true .
indeed , they can not , for humans ’ genetic experimentation is impossible . even many aspects of their behavior are reminiscent of our own . even in animals whose genes are more easily studied , and far better understood , such as drosophila , a small fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait . the eu has a wide variety of genes at each characteristic , at least not knowing . the fruit fly ’s genes is shockingly similar to that of us as they are to those of most other human beings .
environmental degradation , particularly deforestation , is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash flowing from opaque sources flowing to cambodia of casinos , banks , and the real-estate market . gone are the days when strong esg performance was the fair bonus to investors . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that companies in which they invest their investments operate in an ethical , transparent way that limits reputational risks . cambodia is currently bereft of its natural resources , including timber , sullivan , and sandwiched for private gain . emerging-market investment decisions are thus increasingly being outstripped by rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen , have little chance of passing .
whereas the british were particularly open about the nationalistic nature of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic interests . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellors gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . ” simply put , talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe its economic and political fault lines , and has no going backward . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a common military failed in 1954 emphasized the key to european integration .
this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the enlightenment values and in the constitution of liberty . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding one ’s own against the united states . they view even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro appears to be “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak ” in the us . thus , in terms of fundamental values , there is such a thing as the west . america has found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary to help integrate within the united states .
in that case , tusk would most likely go back to domestic politics , where a ninth triumph against the pis would be the punishment kaczyński deserves . may simply be replacing the widely criticized former polish foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , in his own right . he is nothing more than kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” margin in seeking to score a political victory over a man who represents the biggest threat to the pis faces . the majority of the pis , for its part , may well hope for is that some of the country ’s governing coalition ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) would propose another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states would elect to prevent the escalating conflict with poland . the most saryususususz-wolski can realistically hope for is some form of government in poland .
renegotiating the treaty is off the question because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . but this time it is difficult to see a way out that would offer a second referendum . so the problem lay with iran . i can not help but recall the situation from the beginning of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now , once again , the eu is in a irish stew .
but experiences around the world suggest that this is a risky outlook . even were banks healthy , deleveraging processes , and the associated wealth losses mean that , more often than not , economies are fragile . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , more bank losses . the problems are not confined to the american people . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises , and are leading in many cases as well .
german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying further the development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . for now , germany ’s major foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks are most likely to devour . this would be a wise choice , too . for now , they are eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that take into account the activities and possible contributions of non-state actors . nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to deliver military power to the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made clear that it does not perceive itself as a military power .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will need to find ways to prevent current economic activity from escalating an already unsustainable burden on the environment . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill some of the gap through global trade if they are able to pay for the needed imports . after all , the mediterranean region has unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its great assets , a reason that more than 200 million tourists flock to the region annually , feeding the region ’s economies . for that to happen , ecological resources need to be viewed carefully as valuable endowments that can be managed wisely . overuse resources , or even fail to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength .
park ’s achievement will ultimately depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along those lines . she favors a policy of engagement and the six-party talks , so that it will be possible to resolve the nuclear mess . but she must credibly outline practical strategies for dealing with south korea ’s most serious problems , including high levels of unemployment , deteriorating educational quality , and north korea ’s ’s nuclear-weapons program . come presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters will elect a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . ms. park has once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to college years , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy .
a fiscal compact like that approved recently is helpful to anchor expectations regarding future adjustment , but only as long as the new system is flexible enough to be politically dependable . revenues will be wedded to higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . income will grow unevenly , if the tax foundation , that is an economy , grows ever faster . and adjustment must be wedded to the name of growth . up-front gradualism must be the name of the game .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation will generate enough growth to create the private-sector confidence that the gains from spending by households and firms will be more than offset by lower spending by governments . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage us economic growth . second , under the g-20 ’s “ mutual assessment process ” , ” the international monetary fund proposed that the united states cut its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than projected , above $ 400 billion in additional cuts every year . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage us economic growth . second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ mutual assessment process , ” has suggested that the united states has slashed its fiscal deficit at a rate of 3 % of gdp more than it had projected – above $ 400 billion in additional cuts every year .
for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was , rather , a everyday immersion in falsehoods , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . i admit that i view the heritage of communism with more skepticism about our time . but it has done the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with reference and , in the language of matter , lay humanism . totalitarian pressures , indeed , formed exceptional people like former us president john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . this is one reason why the postcommunist societies are showing no nobility or disinterestedness that gravely contrasts with the west .
when the un asked nearly ten million people worldwide to list their priorities , they emphasized better education and health care , less corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . at the same time , the world bank ’s focus on climate change is at risk of just what the world ’s poorest citizens want . the evidence clearly shows that direct policies are far more effective . under kim , the bank propagated the simplistic view that fossil fuels are always harmful , coal must be a forbidden matter , and “ climate aids ” is a solution . in fact , global warming has come close to six issues , including poverty reduction .
the world ’s co2 emissions from power and industry have averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea , tabulation ) , whereas america ’s emissions have been almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for every 320 million of humanity ) . trump also bemoans america ’s contribution to the green climate fund ( and sneers at the name for some reason as well ) . he complains that the us has already given well over $ 1 billion , without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is the contribution of $ 3.08 per american . trump also bemoans the paris agreement ’s supposed bias toward india ’s green climate fund , while refusing to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of america ’s level .
sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . as one wag put it , the us has met the un and is us ! true , un secretary general ban ki moon can make speeches , convene meetings , and propose actions , but his role is more secretary general than secretary-general . and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for the organization to operate . as one wag puts it , “ we met the un and are us !
otherwise , no amount of negotiation can help establish a caucasus straight , powerfully undermining a key restraint that prevents both sides from trying once again to pursue a military solution . a meeting of presidents is , after all , the ultimate bargaining forum , and it must lead to real , sustainable success . that prospect holds out both great opportunities and serious risks . there is every reason not to hold such a meeting in copenhagen for 20 years . perhaps for that reason alone , talk of a meeting in astana between the president of russia and france , america ’s secretary general , and presidents from armenia and azerbaijan .
if the problem were simply a matter of gross breaches by the organization of american states ’ democratic charter , convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro ’s concept of solutions , solutions measured in months or years can be considered at all . governments in both americas and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro ’s misrule is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and capacities , a one-party state illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the election of an elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . yet venezuela is hardly a political dilemma ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . governments in the americas and europe are finding themselves in crude , uncharted waters .
similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , and his far older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy , respectively , respectively , opening facebook to account for the loss of facebook as well . chief minister of northwestern bengal mamata banerjee heads a popular and widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily . but the pace at which the political world seems to be embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he will open a facebook account to receive and respond to publicly motivated questions . a day after india ’s wholesale acceptance of twitter , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open a facebook account to receive and respond to publicly motivated questions .
related to this is the fact that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , one that can serve to avoid the negative impact of those financial speculations being boosted by globalization . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , poor and developing countries alike must be allowed to provide some means of protecting their new industries . so long as a country is subverted by the uncontrollable forces of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . so the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration following widespread economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and most of all a shared will to redress the rules of the game according to one country ’s own interests . only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration .
is it fair to expect that egyptians will continue to pay for their past repression , as well as impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ? when egyptians rose against mubarak in january , they were confronted by arms that had been paid for with borrowed money . a prudent lender was supposed to consider these facts before making loans . given that this money clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not become mubarak , rather than his victims , who are held responsible for it ? is it fair to expect that egyptians should continue to pay for their past repression , and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ?
perhaps those are ideas en vogue at korea as one thinks of a possible reunification , but even one finds it hard to do when that time comes . claims of alternative strategies must therefore be set in rather low levels , say the initial exchange rate that might have been chosen to make eastern germany a low wage country . at a more depreciated conversion rate , we would simply have had a more rapid rate of tepid wage inflation . one alternative strategy , remotely imaginable , is that west germany would have forecast a failure of experimentation before embarking on it . even that is a fantasy since facing high unemployment , east german wages have increased substantially every year relative to west germany .
and online platforms facilitate enhanced consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . china ’s leaders should aim to speed up and build on these trends , rather than pursue additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . and , with the corporate sector already overleveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure . new firms in the service sector , some 3.6 million of which were began just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks in part to a new efficiency-licensing framework . public investment is high enough ; expanding it would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction .
hungarians and poles need to be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively working to sow discord and weaken the eu and nato . it would be unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their scheduled leadership summit in warsaw in warsaw in june , if poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis with the government ’s growing disregard for the rule of law and the opinion of a respected international entity . but the eu also needs to develop a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . the eu has many mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . if europeans are confronting down aggression by the kremlin , it is critical that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles .
but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering . many worry , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will misuse solar geoengineering to oppose emission cuts . still , it is very likely that big fossil-fuel companies , from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions , will finally use discussion of geoengineering to combat emissions limits . at the same time , the vast majority of these researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for inclusion in climate-policy debates , will encourage much stronger action to reduce emissions . but most researchers are driven not by such concerns .
it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago this month , left its own trojan horse for america , the poisoned gift of unilateralism . in order to achieve this , the us would need to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order , much as it did at the very close of world war ii . national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of unilateralism . if a great power forgets that or loses the ability to act accordingly , it starts to decline .
that means engaging sincerely with african governments to devise how best to support national agendas for development and diversification . for their part , the industrialized economies need to do more to promote african oil industries , and to ensure that the damaging impact of new oil production is mitigated . working with other stakeholders , sustainable , and just transition campaigners can achieve something more : by allowing carbon energy to have the positive impact on economies that have so far had only just the negative impact of oil-backed development in the twentieth century . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum company , participating barkindo , as well as numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , provides an ideal opportunity to trigger just such a process . for such work strategies , however , the oil industry needs to get it on board .
economic development within the gaza strip was constrained under egyptian rule , with the region suffering the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the south of mandatory palestinian territory that would later become israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor rested on the un ’s force-relief administration , which built and maintained local refugee camps . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor became dependent on un relief operations , which built up and maintained local refugee camps . by contrast , some 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees , who had lived through tough conditions in scores of refugee camps and relied largely on work within israel . the 1967 war placed all of the mandatory palestinian ( as in sinai and the golan heights ) under israeli military occupation .
when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who were us treasury secretary , the chairman of the us federal reserve bank of england , and the fed ’s president of the federal reserve respectively . now , a decade later , the three have co-authored what might be described as the version of 2.1 of that episode in history . the second design of history is often written by key people themselves . all three published drawn-out memoirs explain why they were doing , and did so n’t , do what they did and did n’t inevitably do , with a degree of self-justifying in each case . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently argued that history would treat him kindly , because “ i ” in order to write that history .
similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ’ chronic loss-making and over-investment ; respectively , through implementing institutional reforms stimulating growth in more dynamic industries , allowing soes to roll over capital . in this sense , east asian economies embraced the process of “ creative destruction , ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economic structure was continually revolutionized from within . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – the replacement of old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they expeded this process . for starters , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms in the 1980s spurred partial growth in the non-agricultural sector , a result of policy aimed at stimulating township and village enterprises . the goal was not to address the problems they faced directly ; rather , they encouraged – to induce new , more efficient activities – to help turn debt into assets and to maximize the ability of the economy .
brussels – as the protests over china ’s ’s ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustices of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation have barely stirred up a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and the united nations referendum on membership . similarly , much of the world protest in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . this seeming double standard can partly be explained by a sense of deceit : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in seeking to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . taiwan , by contrast , does not capture our attention , because it is stable and thriving economically . this neglect is not only deplorable ; it can also prove dangerous .
may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill and nick timothy , took this risk of worrying levels . during my 17-month experience as france ’s home office , i became convinced that spads of excessive power – and a haughty approach – are undermining the uk ’s ’s excellent civic service , just as elected and nominated ministers . many are now eagerly offering their views as much about whether the uk should look again at the “ norway model ” for relations with the eu , or at some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . whatever the choice , what is now clear is that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would me hope to be less controversial : reducing the power bestowed on the uk on un-elected chief adviser or spads to become dominant figures within all government departments .
an encouraging trend is that the methods used to manufacture nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they shifted from laboratory to industrial production . setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , tentative results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or equal to those associated with many existing industrial activities . while trying to stem the development of a nanomaterial-inspired technology would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , the responsible evolution of such technologies calls for vigilance and social commitment . indeed , many ingredients used to make nanomaterials today are notorious for present risks to our own health and environment . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to make nanomaterials often turn into “ greener ” as they shift from laboratory to industrial production .
nowadays , almost 4.5 billion people have internet access , with around one in three internet users below the age of 18 . an unregulated online world is thus fertile ground for reaping enormous gains from child sexual trafficking . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a high-speed internet connection smartphone to get into business . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to force child sex trafficking even more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to counteract this appalling crime . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual gain of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation .
recent us intervention and support from america and japan revealed that the europeans are here to stay , and that markets believe in their success . one should n’t come as a surprise , then , that the euro started a rush against the us dollar , by considering the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . and it should n’t come as a surprise that markets tested the willingness of european political leaders to keep silent where monetary matters were worrying . europe has had a hard but promising start . we all owe them for that .
indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings to mind prevailing economic theory in financial markets as well . people learned that it was paying to buy dips and were not weaned off the habit until it stopped paying for them . but this view is as much a halfway truth as the earlier notion that a boom would last forever , because the internet economy was creating new fundamentals . what should now be clear is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly dictate stock prices are not independently given . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings to mind prevailing economic theories about financial markets .
the principle even applies to foods : huge amounts of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that substance poses broadly depends upon two factors : its inherent capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it . palo alto , since the rise of sixteenth-century science , has guided its guiding principle that “ the dose makes the poison . ” it is the rule that applies to patients worldwide many billions of times every day . the right dots of aspirin can be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too many billions of times every day .
cyrenaica is qaddafi-free ; tripolitania is n’t ; and fezzan has n’t fully joined the revolution altogether . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and powerful tribal identity . albania , mongolia , along with india , has successfully passed more complicated tests , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . given libya ’s lack of a democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome during the post-qaddafi era . the fourth scenario is partition , with an old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) .
they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , funded with very long-term sovereign debt , all of which the ecb should purchase . but they also highlight the crucial question : how does quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary-policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary and desirable fiscal consolidation . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a critical question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ?
confrontation and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even when america ’s government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s - design - design - gut-- annual package has become readily apparent . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much of a nastier . but s & p ’s policy assessment focuses on goal : by creating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the administration , the tea party showed that it was prepared to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , and to ensure a substantially slower pace of growth . standard & poor ’s had received some justification for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there was little economic news to explain the move toward timing . never mind that eye-popping growth projections under representative paul ryan ’s ’s budget plan , for example , are wholly implausible ; for such projections matter politically , because , without them , the tea party ’s proposed medicare cuts would be readily apparent .
trump ’s understanding between xi and trump reflects a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face . on trade , trump and xi had agreed to a 100-day plan for discussing the reduction of america ’s trade deficit with china . both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable them to focus on their respective challenges . moreover , america accepted china ’s proposal to revamp a framework for bilateral engagement through the us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and cybersecurity , and social and cultural affairs . trump , for his part , has embraced xi ’s invitation to visit china soon .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by improving relations between saudi arabia and iran , for example ) should not take priority over a strategy to deal with the forces of sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan in footsteps by reintroducing conscription , already underway in most sunni states ( as well as iran ) . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , at a time when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended in failure as a failed state . that strategy needs to be centered on federalism in the future .
netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fear and the complexes of a broad array of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people tend to vote by memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . the left ’s desire for peace is perceived as naïve , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the israeli right ’s current political dominance is fed by a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and the uncompromising mistrust of the “ world ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the so-called international community , with which jews have a centuries-old dispute . the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are by no means strictly political ; rather , they are an expression of an ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society .
women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies in order to level the economic playing field , to the benefit of individual women , their communities , and societies , and to changing the opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . but there is little question that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their abilities to seize upon the new , changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . in fact , according to mgi research , more than 100 million additional jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years as the need for health care and education to grow . furthermore , among the new jobs that will be created , many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . it is not yet clear precisely how automation affects women ’s jobs .
russia conquered muslim territories in a volga-ural region , caucasus and central asia , and brutally repressed any opposition . after loyalty was secured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic foreign policy . until the mid - 19th century , sedentary muslim elites were co-opted by an imperial aristocracy , just as during the twentieth century , national communist elites were absorbed by the soviet nomenclatura . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia 's imperial government failed to back orthodox evangelism . indeed , russia 's contacts with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and were rooted in a tradition of tolerance .
first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . the trigger was the proposed extradition law that many feared would expand the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s court system . the absence of any plan that brings together diverse protest groups and the government of hong kong has become a source of growing concern . hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( the occasional episodes of deadly violence attracted disproportionate media attention ) . such a scheme would have to do at least two things .
wage insurance might have offered workers whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years , amounting to about half the gap between old and new wage . the very simplicity of this scheme will most likely ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . to address this distortion head on , and to make clarity about the allocation of eu funds , the egf should have focused its scarce funds on two simple , active labor market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance . at the same time , the downside of such a focused approach is obvious : the margin of choice for eu members on how egf funds are to spend in their home country would be minimal . the mobility allowance might offer those moving for new job a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross pay in earlier work or four months to pay for cross-border moves .
in other words , asia ’s rising middle class is not the only change we should expect . to be sure , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change we should expect . but , kharas ’s projection suggests that asia accounts for about two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . that is the real business opportunity , after all . after all , asia ’s share was 28 % ( after including japan ) .
a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be seen as a major defeat for european integration , particularly following the laborious efforts to hold together the monetary union , and with it the european dream . some , like france ’s national front , oppose their country ’s eurozone membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . populist parties , both on the far right and on the far left , derive electoral traction . such an outcome would be even more disheartening , given the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after eu unity marches in france and across the continent , is rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity . nonetheless , the challenge that these new parties pose to europe may prove exceptionally disruptive .
taken together , all of these deficiencies cast grave doubt on the eu ’s claim to be at the forefront of the debate over the fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . but , while deliberation is starting to take place on just how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there seems to be little vision beyond this . european governments are repeating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” to be able to do so ; but they appear to lack a comprehensive strategy to translating this into coherent policy . indeed , when europeans think about reforming global governance , they limit themselves to the numbers of seats and voting weights on international bodies . european governments are only now grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall clout by pushing other powers into separate arrangements .
during the late 1980 ’s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency . but over a long-awaited payment for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark an official end to brazil ’s seemingly unending wartime war of hyperinflation . in december , the lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the banks . had the court endorsed the deal , the settlement would have placed billions of reals into the pockets of savers . são paulo , a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is approaching .
but this has not translated into greater corporate control . illiteracy , tight land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility for all conspire to lower rural women ’s access to farm financing . these barriers have had dramatic implications for social and economic progress . today , more than ever , women dominate african farming , the continent ’s most important industries . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money for farm-related activities than men do .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war . the modi government ’s supporters tout the slew of new repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of a “ abc divorce ” as a display of resoluteness .
one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little media attention : lower capital costs relative to labor costs , which cause the relative drop in labor demand . even assuming a employment subsidy were offered simply for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time . that is very likely to exacerbate the unemployment problem ; surely it is not mitigating it . so , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , we could use $ 60 in asset purchases and the remainder to give firms a marginal job-creation subsidy that might be particularly effective in economies with flexible labor markets , which enable short-term hires .
and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on responsibility and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering roadmap that accomplishes little except for frighten potential entrepreneurs beyond agricultural biotechnology . it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety in the cbd . it is overwrought , confusing , and complicated – in short , inimical fashion for innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor . and it has much in common with nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on responsibility and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering cries that accomplishes little except to frighten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . the seed treaty is cut from an equally anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) .
at the center – beleaguered by the antiglobal responsibilities of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they occurred in the interwar era – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left of communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s debates of globalization , “ a certain situation capitalistically disorganized economies , in which the higher a culture has not been victorious but rather loses in the existential struggle of underprivileged cultures . ” for much of the post-1945 era , those divisions disappeared as right and the left fought battles over redistribution within national economies . instead of only two portions of the divide between the left and the right , as a triple divide , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and the redistributionist leftists .
the materials contained in the book that i brought out china and decided to make public headlines include hundreds of papers , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s leading leaders had deliberated on how to manage the tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; classified report from the security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and the military . as a witness and participant in the tiananmen events , and as someone with access to the historic archive , i sensed that it was my responsibility to publicize this record of decision-making , which lay behind what has happened . but the veil that exists over how the omnipotent party make important decisions is played somewhat , owing to the variety of unique material about the behind-the-scenes incidents surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 . the chinese leadership had been penchant for secretiveness lies in the proverbial . taken together , these documents provide a rare glimpsed into china ’s modus operandi .
in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like other former communist states , tended to be dreary , rigidly , joyless eu , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity was stifled under the blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were forbidden . a local “ rock band ” named plastic people of space , performing in english , was arrested at the end of the 1970s for the “ organized disturbance of the peace ” movement . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries , where they treasured young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later be the country ’s president . rock and roll were regarded as an noxious form of capitalist decadence .
there is , of course , an appealing logic to say that governments should have to rebalance their budgets just like the rest of the us ; unfortunately , that is n’t nearly as simple . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows abruptly dries up . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive cost of self-financing overnight . governments typically have myriad ongoing expenses associated with basic services like national defense , infrastructure projects , education and health care , not to mention pensioners . no government can just stash these responsibilities overnight .
though this perception may be persuaded at first glance , it ultimately builds on generalizations revealing more about its proponents than the actual reality on the ground . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the mayhem . president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while islamist king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” egypt ’s president hosni mubarak claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while islamist king abdullah of egypt has coined the axiom of an ever widening divide in the region . ironically , this perception has given israel some rather unlikely partners .
to complete a shift away from fossil fuels will require drilling down to the heart of the global economy . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today . making matters worse , the nobel laureate consultancy wood mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . it does n’t help that financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion into “ green ” finance to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . companies can not keep producing oil , gas , and internal-combustion engines , while moving gradually to cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break .
furthermore , with american backing , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to modernizing its military equipment and doctrine , increasing soldiers ’ ranks , and improving their training . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at meeting in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless discussion of a theoretical or doctrinaire approach . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing the insurgents to keep their demands realistic . as a result , armed conflict becomes increasingly costly for insurgents .
the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact because it has failed to deliver on its campaign promise to disrupt trade . but it is also another area where obama has set the bar high during his two terms . the administration has enacted tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machinery , but those are small relative to the size of the us economy . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact because it does not deliver on its campaign promise to disrupt trade . yes , this is a volatile data series , because it rises and falls with the usual course of events .
malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , reported that “ jews govern the world through a proxy . " all of these books variation in the protocols of the elders of zion , russia 's forgery first published in 1903 that japan come across after defeating the czar ’s army in 1905 . malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , declared that “ jews rule the world through a proxy . " but southeast asians are not immune to this type of nonsense either . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories have been passed on as well .
german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts because they know that they will be doing bailing out for bailing in . they oppose anything that pays lip service to european political integration . they will need to answer for a strong europe . it needs not just closer economic ties , but closer political ties as well . they will have to answer for a strong europe .
new york – striving to revive the global economy , while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis , has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ signals ” ” signals ” about what we do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on heightened significance : what we measure affects what we do . we may also be confronted with the false choices we face , viewing the trade-offs between output and the “ environmental ” that do not exist . on the other hand , a better measure of economic performance might show that the steps we take to make things better is good for the economy as a whole . in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have assumed an increased level of importance : what we measure affects what we do .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is the money ? ” ; bangkok is a friend ? how do i know that i can trust the value of what it says worth ? we learn in the introductory economics of finance , which money is a medium of exchange . but why are we ready to do so ? banknotes are mere outstrip the number of paper attached ?
when it was first created in 1985 , schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , switzerland , and west germany ) . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and to its national governments ’ capacity to uphold order and the rule of law , that time is now . to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeals . but at times even “ sacred cows ” are needed , at least in some cases . membership has since ballooned to include the eu ’s 22 member countries with four out of those left ( bulgaria , croatia , denmark , iceland , and romania ) because of its accession to the future , plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) .
no doubt , putin is now likely to behave like a peacemaker . he simply wants the “ oligarchs ” to stick to their sphere of activism and into abandoning politics to him . but the problem will not go away . he also realizes that big business has crucially important implications for russia ’s modernization . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically , like metaphorically ) and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . moreover , europe ’s external environment has become more dangerous . should he wake up to one morning , and decide to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things might not get nasty , very fast . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars at the streets of new york present an imminent threat to us national security . while the world has currently been fixated on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored .
it may also erode the charter ’s value of institutions . indeed , more competitive pressures may heighten banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . a bank with thin margins and limited liability does little to lose and will tend to gamble – a bias that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and nonfailed policies . there is a trade-off between competition and stability . the result will be more motivated to assume risk .
most live in poor and distant communities that still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , and dramatically reduced child deaths and illnesses associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus , respectively . this is one reason why a baby born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a baby born in a low-income country to die before reaching an age of five . yet , sadly , the child still die each 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia , which can be prevented by vaccines altogether . fortunately , the world is taking action .
as the pioneering chilean psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in early development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally focus their own needs and do n’t think of the rules . and , because the child believes that everyone operates under his particular definitions of right and wrong , he can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . rather than acknowledge how to break the rules , they lie to reconcile inconsistency . a child may snatch yet another child ’s playthings , breaking it down , and then denying it all may have done differently . to a childish think he is out of the wrong question ; the world is simply misinformed .
its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , seaports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just stunning . over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold . indeed , what can india do to close the gap ? it is this difference more than anything else that sets the two economies apart . if your products can not reach the global economy , you can not conquer it .
there are two kinds of populists today : exploitative and enlightened . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are forcing willing prey on those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many , no less than easily swayed voters , must be scrutinized . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as elitist endeavor , whereas unaccountable social media , fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and , “ alternative facts , dominate public debate . the question is whether the brand of politics that is threatening liberal democracy may be repurposed as well .
a final feature beyond this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . the crisis has heightened uncertainty about the future course of consumer - and investment-led demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . for example , an mgi survey conducted last year found that 47 % of firms increase their investment budgets largely as a result of increased demand or demand expectations . across industries , slow demand recovery following the financial crisis has been pivotal in holding back investment .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism , ” from ordinary rules of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . they view economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without being confronted with a logic that is far less committed with the facts . the french are indifferent to the fact that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” ” ” ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . yet the facts have hit hard as well . this view , propagated since world war ii by the quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to understand how markets function .
avoiding that outcome will require us political leaders to constrain the growth in entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income individuals . for example , to ensure that no one working for 30 or more years will live in abject poverty , social security needs a higher minimum benefit to older workers with more affluent seniors , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time . with no change in course , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will deplete their 2030s . health care and social security already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from six in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to be more than double by 2040 . whereas social security and medicare remain important to ensure retirement wellbeing , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs .
new york – president george w. bush was right to call pakistan the recent national and provincial elections a victory for [ its ] people . ” collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , and in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . but , although spoken of these words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subvert the will of pakistan ’s ’s ’s ’s people by seeking to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election as the biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls , but this time , too . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking pakistan ’s political process to be felt for the sake of its own legacy .
it mutters fast within an individual , as well as in geographic location , introducing latent reservoirs within cells that enable it to emerge , and to replicate a few months , or even a few years later . meanwhile , three of the population of five hiv-positive people are not receiving an antiretroviral therapies . it evades the immune system , which is why the body ’s natural ability to fight or clear is restricted . moreover , long-term treatments are not the equivalent of cures , and no public-health tool ( apart from clean drinking water ) has ever equated with the preventive force of a vaccine .
but it is helpful to remember that the university stood accused of subverting their own ideals and social roles since their time immemorial ; yet what in the past looked to many like a conflict of interest often came later became viewed as a confluence of purposes . according to that argument , academic researchers should either publish their research openly , or drop , at the heart of their academic mission , from forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . for example , during the late 19 th century , as american universities began to perform research at the heart of an academic post , they were accused of forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . similarly , during the late 19 th century , academic researchers should either publicize their teaching obligations that they could not fulfill . many of the professors argued that research ’s demands would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill .
nonetheless , the ecb has provided massive amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the pressure for government debt refinancing . the ecb is the only institution in the european union able to provide unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute forbids government bailouts . for 18 months , it has been purchasing government-bond bonds , worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets , under its securities market program . moreover , it has provided loan loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks at € 489 billion . brussels , throughout the crisis , has conditioned loans on the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks worth € 489 billion .
the bush administration failed to see trouble coming , denied that they were in trouble when they arrived , then minimized their significance , and , at last , panicked . america ’s economy had been supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now , that strikes the painful deleveraging process . excessive leveraging , combined with poor lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze up . after all , when banks are unaware of their own balance sheets , they are uninterested in consumer confidence in others ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ampnbsp ; they are wrong to be confident that the world is better off . america would face these problems , even if it did not simultaneously face a financial crisis .
as former south korean national education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during our visit , teaching young people how to think critically takes time ; on the contrary , the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s ’s knowledge-based economy . in fact , vietnam and south korea are offering inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their learning systems within just one generation . aware of these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority now is to improve inclusivity . for example , the government currently works to encourage instruction in more local languages , more than 100 are interviewed in myanmar , in rural areas .
instead , policies that exacerbate competition , whether in business , labor markets , or in domestic production may be socially destructive and politically explosive . what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and educational subsidies that could compensate for those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . that highlights yet another reason for failure in economic policymaking since 2007 . but what if the compensation that economists predict in theory does not happen in practice ?
madrid – economic globalization , coupled with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries so much more so as well , with many companies within them , key global economic actors . once upon a time , global outward direct investment flowed from just a few sources : the traditionally affluent european states , north america , and japan . these changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime , and should broaden interest in developing a more efficient investment-protection framework . but cross-border investment by countries like brazil , india , and china now flows not only to other emerging and transitional economies , but also to the “ old ” f-exporting states . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for protecting foreign investment .
computers and the internet have made it possible to send information nearly costlessly , doing business across cultures and continents . the worry is that information technology now seems to be bending to the curve of the “ hockey stick , ” where it will suddenly overtake it at far bigger speeds than in the past . worries about globalization and computers have ultimately boil over each other up to the same , because globalization tends to be the product of new information technologies . in fact , hockey stick curves are often happening in nature , and so are the ones we have seen it for years or more . the resulting changes will not all be welcome at all in an economic upturn as well .
copenhagen – amid a growing wave of concern about climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and france – have passed laws in the 2000 ’s on a outlawing , or severely restricting their access to incandescent light bulbs . the goal has been understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we might save 3.5 % of all our electricity or 1 % of our co2 emissions . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to address global warming . many contend that the agenda is driven by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . many contend that the republicans ’ agenda is driven by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers .
this suggests that , for the uk , the mega-regional trade deal that provides access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does – namely , the best way forward . the key to boosting those gains , from the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and in markets . for example , the inter-american development bank reports that the trade gains from latin america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 33 mini-regional trade agreements have so far been meager . this suggests that , for the uk , the mega-regional free-trade agreement – that would grant access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – is the best way forward .
for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the level needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in over-indebted countries . delivering high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical for the equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . by contrast , income inequality – which is not too extreme and does not emerge from corruption or privileged access to markets – is both understood and accepted . against this backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns in the global economy and its different parts . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion , and that do not emerge from either corruption or privileged access to markets , are well understood and accepted .
one criterion that looks universally accepted is a party to use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence , as was probably the case with golden dawn ’s role in the attacks on migrants in athens . if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense must not appear ad hoc , or arbitrary . thus , the criteria for prohibitions should be spelled out in advance . one criterion that seems universally accepted is a party to use , encouragement , or at least condoning core democratic principles , as was apparently the case with golden dawn ’s role in the attacks on immigrants in athens . there is less consensus among parties that incite hatred and commit to destroying core democratic principles , particularly because many extremist parties in europe are gone out of their way to stress that they are not toward democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ the people ” .
clearly , elected officials need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable . the other side of this argument – that ordinary people ’s interests have been subordinated to those of the elite – needs to be heard and responded to them . either the government or the entire system will be overturned . patriotism , for them , means harder-centric defense of the national interest and embracing more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats .
finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the dollar was a mere 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 – well below the double-digit declines of the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . more important , wealth and consumption in china are intimately related to real-estate values , rather than equity values . so , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it rivals . even more relevant , the decline in the renminbi and the other currency earlier this year had very little effect on us import prices , because the chinese and other exporters are pricing their goods in dollars and adjusting not when changes in exchange rates . finally , the renminbi ’s recent drop against the dollar came at just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 per cn ¥ 6.35 to cn ¥ 6.35 – well below the double-digit annual energy cost .
so , while we can expect a multi-year rebalancing process and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it will overtake france depends on policy choices and the pace of structural adjustment . in all of the cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . many developing countries are spending a lot of time under a stable , non-growth equilibrium , and then shift to a more positive one . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , owing to the more deprived components of recovery in those countries . there is nothing automatic about this , either .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with a trade deficit forecast exceeding $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka makes up the foundation for rapid development once he is gone . finally , the eu should be working to disentangle belarus . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . belarus can not borrow enough to hide this .
at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have been growing substantially since 2005 , while mexico ’s steady categorization has been rather disappointing , and egypt ’s are even more baffling . these countries have exceptionally diverse economic and social conditions , and very different levels of wealth . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , with their current nominal gdp around $ 6.5 trillion . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s income levels have n’t come anywhere near that of south korea ; on the contrary , they are vastly wealthier than the rest of the g20 , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . meanwhile , south koreans now enjoy the standard of living similar to that in the us , which is making many analysts ’ unrelenting categorization of south korea as the “ emerging economy ” ” ” ” all the more baffling .
far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and the betrayal of his allies represent a new norm for world order . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to its betrayal of the kurds , who spearheaded the fight against the islamic state ( isis ) , has also undercut eu interests . for the first time since world war ii , europe finds itself without a notable ally or partner . multilateralism , human rights , and the respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open-minded support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians regularly flout the idea of an alliance founded on shared values , whereas china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked .
leading economists like germany , klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s ’s ’s bailout fund , has calculated that the eu ’s shrinking labor force is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he forecasts that labor shortages are creating a ceiling that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % between now and 2030 , and just 1.3 % from march to 2050 . whether or not the public sentiment does change in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more negatively . removing some 70 million jobs and , therefore , taxpayers would obviously be catastrophic . comparatively few europeans seem to contest the moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking boat people fleeing from syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere .
according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . not since 1951 has the international organization for refugee protection received so much attention . at last count , some 258 million migrants worldwide could be registered , with around 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . those numbers would be dwarfed if even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out . and yet no climate-induced international treaty does receive so much media attention .
when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell , for dozens of hours without a break ; for an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including its media , attempts to disband and destroy you once and for all , prague is becoming the only intimate , guilty , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can only be made available at all . in this season of love and family , the loneliness of a prison cell becomes nearly intolerable . god , one realizes it , is one ’s only friend and only available family , because , once deprived even of access to a trusted priest , there can be no one else to confide one ’s ’s ’s worries and hopes . here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have found that there are probably no female atheists in prison , either . lukyanivska ’s prison , kyiv , reported that there are almost unbearable atheists .
and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count non-subsidized loans as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a vital public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of a non-grant-based aid . this reverses the trend over the past couple of decades toward grant-based funding , particularly for basic learning . borrowing buy-downs may help keep the education sector “ competitive , ” ” and might show a mechanism for borrowing countries to repay extra resources for education , for which cash-strapped governments might not be willing or able to borrow otherwise . but , beyond reducing aid , donors might also work harder for borrowing countries to repay aid funds that they owe ( this might not be confined to education loans ) .
ultimately , the enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in the context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work toward a fairer distribution of a growing pie than it is for a shrinking one . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is experiencing in the slums of its big cities . moreover , the fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be coupled with programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . had more attention been given to countries ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , that population might have no chance of choosing violence as an instrument of change . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic advances remains our best tool for preventing conflict in the long term .
from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , in adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , daw , daw , and karl marx , we tend to see that concern about exhausting resources is not new . while we are n’t certain about the precise effects , many scholars believe that total annual precipitation will continue to rise , but that its seasonality and frequency might also rise . water supplies are also highly variable across regions and countries , with floods and droughts occurring in irregular times . this would make use of the existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatments systems , and pipelines without great modifications .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen through loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than with any notion of merit , which is why the temptation to strip everyone of their underwear and to send them home ( to describe what might be the most humane outcome ) might be great . but arguably the most important lesson that has been learned in iraq stems from the near-catastrophic choice of decommission saddam ’s army without paying or retirement . the oil sector appears to be relatively intact , and thus should make some contribution to government revenues relatively soon . that move lay with the uprooting of many in iraq . but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq stems from the near-term of security problems .
in former communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) large firms had been misbegotten from their inception . even under more favorable western-dominated conditions , large states ( and many private ) often had to break , overrestructured , mixed , or shut down . for the past several years , investment in communism was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , privatization gains are often dubious at best . the problem lies in the assumption that most state enterprises possess some value .
yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as are large numbers of people throughout the developing world . as debates have shown , these issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , businesses , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . the new international initiative , convened by the electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of delivering energy to the mdgs , as well as from his initiative on sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) , and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we electrified more than four million households through a program of focus effort over the short term , an effort that featured prominently in discussions hosted by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy for all , and that drew interest from other developing countries .
but causation also runs the other way . high birth rates in many countries are partly the result of low income . high fertility rates stymie the prospects for economic growth because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . the un 's medium-term fertility scenario projects that the world 's population will rise from seven billion today to around ten billion by 2050 . nigeria 's population might have risen from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen 's ’s ’s ’s population may have grown from 18 million today to 42 million by 2050 .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are running plummeting currencies and soaring interest rates , albania has its lowest record interest rates and a strengthening currency . fast-forward to the present : the economy grows at a robust 4.2 % pace , driven by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and entrepreneurial services . all of the ingredients of this catastrophic outcome have been there , to be sure . once north korea ’s european union under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level today is 25 % that of germany . it now has the lowest level of sovereign spreads for any country at its credit-rating class , indicating that markets think the ratings agencies were asleep at the wheel .
peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalized relations between the americas and sudan . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming rounds of negotiation , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur in order to ensure that peace efforts there receive equal rates of attention as north-south efforts . what is needed now is the political will , not just in the us , to sustain this diplomacy . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors , especially egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda , will also need to play a robust role . conversely , the obama administration should be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe repercussions for any party that plunges the country back into war .
there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for a policy ’s benefits and collectivize the costs , he follows the policy sooner , more rapidly , and vastly expanded than would have been had he had he had to incur costs alone . this renewed fall in debt discipline , however , reflects the socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries via the introduction of joint-responsibility mechanisms . what is remarkable is how matter-of-intly european ’s transgressors can be clogging themselves to the mantle of a new social break . it is this de facto debt mutualization that has pushed creditor countries to accept lower interest rates and merely to lower interest rates that have allowed renzi , samaras , valls , and the rest to distance themselves from austerity policies . this renewed collapse of debt discipline thus reflects the socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries through the establishment of joint-liability mechanisms .
the story is as complex as indonesia ’s itself . in short , javanese culture helps indonesia manage the many diverse voices shaping its core javanese culture , particularly the wayang religious tradition . in short , javanese anderson , roots indonesia ’s many varied voices featuring the culture of the new javanese , no message , no bible , no redeemer . according to praberson , “ contrary to the great religions of the near east … the religions of wayang have no prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer , ” … the never-ending variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang is reflecting the variegation of human life as found by javanese … ” ” and , indeed , why , has indonesia ’s situation gone up to beforehand ?
that stance has translated , most obviously into the repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending the kind of conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . next door , russia , too , must react to the new vulnerabilities that are stemming from changing global conditions . engaging with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting highlight , the eu is critical to engage with the southern mediterranean , a position of political , economic , and energy cooperation . that stance has translated , most obviously into the repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending any conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . in this respect , the eu , too , needs to react to the new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions .
cairo – last week , ’s visit to egypt by saudi arabia produced 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil-deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt was forced to relinquish two red sea islands ceded to saudi arabia in 1950 . how , then , did the country reach that point ? indeed , egypt may not even be able to handle the domestic challenges posed by its rapidly rising population dependent on unaffordable subsidy , a situation that jihadists are exploiting so much success . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country will remain a major regional power as a lie .
protests have spilled over nigeria , as well as countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the security challenge that nigeria faces has dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled a safe schools initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech at which he called upon jonathan to “ bring back school pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , led by former us government secretary oby ezekwesili ( who also spoke at the world book ’s day event ) , and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . international media have paid rapt attention , reports of protests , and sit-ins .
an immediate cost was poland ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . if the russians were using their “ peacekeeping ” ” force solely to protect south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would do little harm to their soft power , and the benefits they could pass away at the expense of that . in early august , russia set the trap in south ossetia , and georgia foolishly stepped in . by bombing , blockades , and occupying a large part of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia had lost its claims on legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world . neighbors like ukraine became more wary , if not more so .
the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflects their ability to enforce contracts on long distances , when the existing institutional framework can not possibly do as credibly as possible . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and the dutch and british east indian firms organized much of world trade through such networks . as the late historian philip curtin has documented , from the beginning of urban life , millennia ago , trade typically involved networks of co-ethnic merchants living among aliens . but a diaspora with potentially economic significance is going well beyond remittances . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas china , and the dutch and british east asian corporations all organized much of world trade via such networks .
for example , the impact on harley-davidson is raising costs by some $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . trump ’s signature theme is that by helping the company to do business , he will help all of america . trump ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an additional $ 45 million . when government policies reduce profitability or threaten a person ’s very existence , the mere logic is that those running that business should respond as they see fit . those tariffs raise costs for companies that use metal as an input .
at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) . for more than two decades , a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan retained its status as the world ’s wealthiest country for net fortune abroad . but selection of experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry . indeed , the ministry has used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public discourse , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control , than about the impact of an adverse demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists such as joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ”
indeed , the great risk nowadays is that with so many genetic descriptions of organisms that spread out , we are “ drowning ” the seas of data , but moving further away from our understanding of biological complexity . our first task is to tell how many different cells there are at stake in the complex organism . the basic functional units of all complicated living organisms should be remembered , are cells , not genes , in mind . our first task is to say how many different cells there are within a complex organism . i believe that we can now say that for c. elegans .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . within the coming two years , the soviet union , divides up open by mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , finally imploded . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace , but an attack on a nation and its allies in an ossified supply side and an industrial stake holders are widening . in today ’s europe , they see only a sign of possibility , a glass far less than a half-full force , for reform and restructuring , and one that is impatient at europe ’s sluggish progress . new fronts in this war are opening up each day , one of the highest in the world . in today ’s europe , they see only hints of a possibility , a glass far less than half a full force , for reform and restructuring – and impatient at europe ’s sluggish progress .
they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . rather , countries need to seize control drastically , by improving efficiency and productivity . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . there is no reason or no excuse for abandoning the livelihoods of millions to unforeseeable weather patterns . to be sure , progress on private-sector investment in agriculture has stalled .
such rapid industrialization rises are rare , but not unprecedented . europeans may be more merry , believing that the chinese market will open not only to european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to luxury goods and even to the tourism demanded by the new and affluent chinese middle class . even prior to this time , england was the economic wunderkind of europe . everybody felt that a seismic shift was doomed . indeed , everybody felt that a seismic shift was under way .
but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity about economic reform . everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin after the march election . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence may simply have bought putin some extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , that is an unlikely scenario . the once-and prospective president argues that he has already made russia stronger ; and that , because financial uncertainties grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by germany .
likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , the volume is self-earned , though that means shedding standards of borrowers ’ creditworthiness . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now accounts for around 80 % of the outstanding volume . furthermore , not only is the newer issues emanating from the lower-quality borrower , the tgbs on these tools – provisions meant to ensure that they comply with their terms , and thus minimize the default risk – also have become lax . over time , this has fueled a surge in low-cost lending , because banks have not yet to live up to the consequences . the share of the “ weakest link ” that corporates have rated b. – or lower ( with the negative outlook ) , in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to assume positions on issues that some indian mandarins have favored to lamentable – for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark major violence in areas already serving by indian un peacekeepers . likewise , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be addressed . before long , the council will also need to consider the implications of the likely commencement of the american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance to india ’s ’s ’s national security council . issues such as sanctions on iran , a stop-and-start middle east peace process , and a world ’s response to the probable leadership change in north korea , will almost certainly present itself on the council ’s agenda as well . all of these are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” countries .
the fact that fidesz increased its number of parliamentarians from 20 to 129 now means that many members have never been subjected to the whip of the party . years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists to practical politicians nearing the middle age . that practicality will be sorely tested if it is to succeed . moreover , a significant number of these new fidesz mps have been formerly members of other parties , collapsing right-wing parties , not so long ago . one problem that orban faces will emerge , not from his adversaries , but from within his own party ranks .
as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen put it , the globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . but it is the opponents of liberalism that are wielding it most effectively . just as liberalism ’s survive as an guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of their own societies . nationalism and traditionalism in the meantime have become sources of positive emotions , even when those emotions , nostalgia , and völkisch feel belonging are ever-muzzled sands . without disregarding logic and ethics , areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine the alternative , liberals must unite with people on an emotional level .
i believe that it is outdated , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores the vast scientific advances of the twentieth century . in studying physics , the students study algebra simultaneously motivating them with the feeling of mathematics . this sequence of study was conceived in 1893 . other industrial nations may cycle through pieces of disciplines , miss an essential coherence of the p-c-b sequence . this sequence of study was devised in 1893 .
owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining worldwide . until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise financial resources over the war . but , in britain in 1842 , the income tax had become a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded . many at the time rejected policies altogether , warning that they would destroy incentives and induce the economy to cease .
before the financial crisis , even germany had violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) deficit limits . governments and the bond market would test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal fortification ( when they are ratified ) . in the us , the 1980 ’s ’s ’s ’s deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended . yet sticking to the euro and pushing for all adjustment in price risk risks greater unrest ; indeed , it might simply postpone the inevitable . while talking tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism .
such leveraging of the eu budget would supplement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the successor to the efsm ) and mtfa . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period might well be possible , while upholding the eu ’s medium-term objective of a balanced budget . between the mtfa , the efsm and payments to third eu countries , the eu ’s total exposure this year would be € 70.5 billion . countries that receive help should be empowered to apply for an anticipated eu disbursement . following a request by a member state , the eu would be empowered to borrow on capital markets under an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum dictated by the size of the country ’s unexploited ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
they argue that western countries object to whaling , because because , for them , whales are a peculiar kind of animal , as cows are for hindus . there is a tradition that they wish to continue , presumably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . eating whales are essential for health or better nutrition . indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing humpback whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than environmentalists ’ opposition to it .
the bad news is that financial capital has moved abroad to fund other overblown conglomerates . canceling taxes on realized capital gains has boosted share sales enormously . the international equity funds have stepped in , lending to companies that have urgently needed liquidity , while disentangling the traditional proprietary networks . germany , incis at its latest legs , has been burned by germany . the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled up to be efficient , and capital markets have been able to do their job , improving resource allocation .
there is a big difference between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missile sites and one with dozens of sophisticated weapons that could be mounted on accurate long-range missile systems capable of reaching america . even absent such developments , drift is not a desirable option . talks would probably be suspended ; we would be back to where we were just two years ago , but with overlay of recrimination and mistrust . north korea could use the passage of time to raise its nuclear weapons in its arsenal , and by making some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems free of overt testing . at that point , any realistic policy must start with accepting the reality that total and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect anytime soon .
for russia , august 1998 marked the dividing line . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy as well . their absence makes it hard to invest too large amounts of money in russian securities . fortunately , bond markets are dead and might take a year to revitalize them . a time comes when every disaster has played out , and all stupidities is recognized .
the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest , and saudi arabia might well barely be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified marketplace . nowhere else in the world see the modernity experienced as that of any single problem . after all , faces from the royal family are viewed everywhere ; face from women shrouded , deceitfully hidden . they strolled , bussed , traveled at carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated partly by social demands , above all for their self-empowerment .
in that scenario , one will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of a global division of labor . after wwi , the pendulum swings back toward the state . between the two extremes lies much of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . for example , the repeal of corn laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , accelerating globalization until the outbreak of world trade . we can identify important swings during the history of capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward a single market or through a state .
local communities have initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools ) , in tandem with efforts by the japan atomic energy agency ( iea ) to develop remedial technologies in such zones . but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , as well as the resulting meltdown of the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , has gone beyond any scenario previously believed . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan for a situation facing contaminated parts , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communication , particularly regarding radiological risk . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , and to limit potential hazard , from the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disaster strikes .
moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health after surgery to remove subdural hematoma in her brain . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and influences on foreign affairs . today , with both kirchner and chávez from the image , that period of leftist populism draws near . moreover , she recently suffered a heavy defeat at her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undercutting her authority during her remaining two years in office . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence over foreign affairs .
if decision-making on systemically important national financial institutions occurs at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers pick up the tab , the entire eu will lose . in good times , we probably would not be able to tell the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avoid another crisis . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergency ” emergencies are precisely the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards that might eventually become binding across the eu if endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be allowed to settle disputes between national supervisors . more important , should the council call the state for a financial emergency , like that which we are all in today , eu agencies might exceptionally prefer predominance beyond national supervisors .
more than 28 million out-of-school children are rising in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , the handicrafts of myanmar , and south sudan . but the cause is all too well known : there is a race against education . this week , there have been two more assaults on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one in the girls ’ school , where staff has been bludgeoned and bombs set off , as well as the rest on neighboring boys ’ school , where a classroom once sprayed with a bullet . the number of casualties in both assaults remains unknown . all of them are vulnerable to extremist violence .
this , say the economists participating in the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investment a world could possibly make . here ’s one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami compares with the number of worldwide hiv/aids casualties worldwide . a comprehensive prevention program providing free or cheap condoms and knowing about safe sex in regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion , saving more than 28 million lives . a social benefit would outweigh the costs as much as $ 40 to a single every person . one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by the publication of a book by the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights .
louis uchitelle of the new york times quotations of the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on the “ co-dependent relationship … between america and its trading partners , ” which may “ last for quite a while , ” because “ the us and its major trading partners have a vested interests in the status quo . ” the last thing they want is the mass unemployment and urban strife to call their positions to question . after all , the ruling communist party has grown accustomed to a comfortable lifestyles . china ’s government terms the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities are less significant than the need to maintain near-full-employment levels in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed keen to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , and their central banks have piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets .
washington , dc – not long ago , the separation of financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in numerous countries around the world . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed by many as essentially harmless , or , at least , as a relatively meaningless monetary-policy channel . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , nonetheless went so far as to unbundle these functions , by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial supervisory issues altogether . this kind of rapprochement stems from growing recognition that asset-price cycles must account for both macroeconomic management and financial oversight . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervisory and macroeconomic management were forced to reunify .
much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening up trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . seoul , when running two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both escape . both goals , while not incompatible , are entirely different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously help to achieve both . this idea matters a lot in trade policy .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries , still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi , are wondering how the ttip would affect each of them . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada has been negotiating one . one possibility , suggested by a ex-colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would provide a powerful impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . at some level , nafta and ttip will need to be harmonized . the ttip is not just american and eu governments .
to avoid a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , coupled with a debt-mutualization fiscal union ( eurobonds ) – that is , a full banking union , started with eurozone-wide deposit insurance – should start with a full banking union , and moves toward greater political integration , even like greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , sovereigns resists all of these crucial policy action , because it is fixated on the borrowing risk that its taxpayers would be exposed with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone calamity is rising . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , this is not the only threatening the global economy . indeed , sovereigns resists all of these key policy measures , because they are fixated on the credit risks that its taxpayers would face with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration .
but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . of course , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . for example , it makes clear that its pursuit of bases in the indian ocean and makes its blue-water navy geared toward safeguarding the straits of malacca , a sea-trade route that is seen as a choke point for the chinese economy . indeed , chinese leaders appear to be touting the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . this so-called “ pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the kind of robust bilateral relationship that benefits both countries next to impossible .
european opponents of the roadmap for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country stands ready for nato membership . but the roadmap process does not state the automatic right of nato membership . on the contrary , maps would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . both would have to answer many tough questions and persuade others to live up to nato ’s ’s ’s democratic demands before being allowed to join . too many question signs of their national unity are said to exist , too many internal conflicts linger , and their record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen , who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , was portrayed as the puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . the redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the combination of social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities . so what do the left and the right still mean ? left-wing parties started to lose , in some countries more quickly , than the rest of us , their foundation on the industrial working class . there is little question that something shifted around in the last decades of the twentieth century .
another is that north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in america ’s reliability and guarantee to protect it with its own nuclear forces . “ use of them or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities lack the legitimacy to absorb an attack , and still mete out the kind of devastating retaliation that might prove essential to effective deterrence . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . one risk is that , over the next couple of years , north korea will again come to possess a significant arsenal , which poses a meaningful threat to america . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would nonetheless heighten the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a crisis .
that emphasis on boosting us exports , rather than reducing imports , is a welcome feature . at the 2013 summit meeting in sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama showed china ’s president xi jinping on the evidence that chinese-owned members had been stealing industrial technology . because it turned to special trade policies , the nss emphasizes american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that the american government would take additional steps to stem it . the chinese embraced the evidence agreed that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , and argued that the chinese government would not be helpful in such theft in the future . when it turned to concrete us trade policies , the nss stressed the possibility that america will seek to “ break down trade barriers , ” providing americans with the opportunity to increase their exports .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the global balance of power , and that the u.s. was in decline . but such narratives can lead to conflict . after chinese leaders confronted international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries over the past two years decided to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its power led to increasingly assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated deviating from the clever strategy of a rising power and in violation of deng ’s dictum that china should continue cautiously and “ skillfully ” to carry a low profile .
as such , the country ’s economic and financial foundations remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . argentina fell back into crisis , for the simple reason that not enough had changed since the latest debacle . but , since then , the country has been running into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . while they have been committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions have also made several avoidable mistakes . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been unevenly implemented , and the central bank has squandered its credibility at key times .
attempts by economists to predict the future have had mixed results , at best ; at best , very few foresaw the depth of the great recession even after it began . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters contributing to a survey by professional forecasters predicted declining gdp in the remaining months of the year ; indeed , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the highest rate recorded on record . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp , a statistic that is often revised substantially as more data became available . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy ’s depth , incomplete , or flawed data .
the west is fighting a war over principles , a war , as us president bill clinton put it , “ in order to end a moral tragedy . ” fighting in kosovo is the first significant conflict , which , for one side at least , involves nato ’s considerations of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for one , has first intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . at the moment , the west is fighting a war over principles , a war that , as president bill clinton put it , is “ aimed at ending a moral tragedy . ” fighting a war in kosovo is the first significant conflict that , for one side , at least , includes no previous considerations of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology .
california ’s latest construction and appliance standards are expected to avoid having the need for five major coal-fired power plants over the next ten years . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create levels of playing fields and helping to build industrial capacities . buildings last for decades , so decisions made today have a long-term impact on us energy use . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes .
rather than try to explore the options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , america was quick to pressure the un security council against more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . as the agreement aimed to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why was it met with so much outrage at the american and western governments ? i fear this is because the us has found itself denigrated its primacy in setting global policy toward iran . nevertheless , an effort to preempt america ’s strategy has clearly failed , as new un sanctions were undertaken earlier this month . this has forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the security council , to vote against an sanctions resolution .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should dodge a higher ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than foster , economic performance . there is also an issue of backcausality . debt-to-gdp ratios typically rise to countries hit by economic hardship . they chose , without explanation , to divide the debt-to-gdp ratios on the successive categories : under 30 % , 30-60 % , and 60-90 % , respectively , and above 90 % . and it turns out that the growth rate declines in all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only more in the final category .
many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protest are driven by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . as a result , policies are forcing people and companies to shift to immature technology will likely slow growth , aggravating the effects of energy poverty . vaclav havel , who is bill gates ’ favorite energy expert , argues that “ claims of a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , adding that even a greatly accelerated shift toward renewables would not relegate fossil-fuel production to a minority contributors to the global energy supply anytime soon , surely not in 2050 . ” this is also why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” ” than most people realize it . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are driven by the widespread conviction that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet .
a ugandan doctor working in norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of a beer in kampala . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . yet the drop in remittances , on the other hand , cuts both ways . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money circulating in african countries . at the same time , he has been willing – and able – to pay more than local doctors for services , and of course a home in uganda .
rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the advantages that innovations and new technologies might offer . this vision of risk underpins economic interactions . the eu ’s goal , to protect human health and the environment , is laudable . but mitigation of all risks is impossible so far . in europe , on the other hand , greater weight is placed on the downside , undermining private-sector confidence in investments in innovation .
just to remind the world of this , because an indirect round of talks was prepared to get off the ground , israel ’s government approved a decision to break the ground on 112 housing units in a settlements south of bethlehem , along with 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant ruling to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for arabs to give their blessing to the talks . for the palestinians , a return to talks , however indirect , is focused on just one strategic issue : borders . israel has been among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give their blessing to the talks . it is clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu , the upstarts of indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem is a kind of victory .
consider other devastating events that are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . that the failure of international capital markets has led to abrupt and devastating capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . in the us , for instance , floods , hurricanes , earthquake , and tornadoes are triggering immediate federal assistance . in fact , unlike moral hazard , market failure highlights the circumstances under which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically indefensible . for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou '' shall not intervene , '' a crucial feature of hazard on globalization is market failure .
as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls the money and interest rate controls european politics . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failing policies when recessionary economic forces tighten . so , although europe ’s countries remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions rested , remained democracy-free . handing europe ’s money and politics to the cartels not only magic the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . the more europe ’s establishment chokes democracy , the less legitimate its political authority become .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march was far greater than even that foresaw by the authorities ’ worst scenarios . nearly six months later , total damage remains hard to forecast . social unrest and turmoil , together with radiation leaks by the fukushima nuclear plant , continue . both moody ’s ’s and the standard & poor ’s had now rates japanese bonds at just their fourth-highest level . and now the country has absorbed another enormous blowback : another downgrade of its bond ratings .
the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraq ’s shia militia and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon , and has thousands of rockets prepared to target israel . even when the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many could still evade their defensive systems . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a proxy network across the region . syria and iraq have become crucial links in the iran-led shia strategic arc , stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the crude rockets launched from gaza .
iraq , ravaged by war and now buffeted by violence , is known to be the most intellectually inclined among arab countries . indeed , rasheed observes that at every american screening of his film , audiences need a public apology before starting to related to rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as his voice in iraq . here ’s the hope that raheed and his colleagues continues to build an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here is the hope that relations between america and international audiences to rasheed goes from one of expition to one of expiation to his work . as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region repeatedly repeat themselves : “ “ books ” are being written in egypt , it is being printed in lebanon , to read in iraq . “ personally , i am asking no one ; i am here , too , to make up some of the turmoil by the middle of the movie . ”
complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a power grab , since assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend far beyond structural imbalances to two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risks . the first risk stemmed from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and are falling together . and , as recent european post-crisis experience has shown , it is politically difficult to undertake structural reforms when vested interests captured the regulatory system .
economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and to broaden life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and improved information . moreover , trade also carries far broader benefits for society as a whole . in uganda , freer trade during the past 35 years has been shown to lengthen average lifespan by 2-3 years . in america ’s case , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity substantially . what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” to quote one academic study .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to admitting migrants , eu member states should also be working to create stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as it may be to do , attempting to paper over differences or preempt dissent is a good place to start , with countries like the european project ’s core – joint strategic planning – will not make matters any easier . there is little question that it is hard even for 27 sovereign countries to act as one . the only way to get where europe needs is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity . the permanent , structured defense cooperation that was agreed last december is a good place to start with countries everywhere rising in europe , for example , joint pan-european strategic planning .
and yet , fresh glimpses of hope are multiplying . to be sure , the media are under assault like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in courageously . slaying the nine journalists in kabul on april 30 for the hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the fall of the taliban , adding to a grim global tally . according to lawless reporters , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered worldwide in the past 15 years , and only a handful of culprits have been brought to justice .
this unanticipated megatrend has the unforeseen corollaries . seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for the majority of global income , but of only 15 % of its population . now , billions of people have been lifted out of poverty , and are wealthier , healthier , and have more opportunities to survive . future historians may well recall that period as humankind the greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , nearly nobody ever saw it coming .
indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horse for american or german interests that ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . at the same time , polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for a more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates just how different poland ’s worldview today is . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the former soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . nurturing suspicions about who were backing by helping to drive wedges among diverse groups .
but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to rally around more women ) . things are only as bad at the lower end of the government , where women ’s candidates account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom have no female members at all . as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches of party to elect more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th countries in terms of its ratio of female mps . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he might choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to rally around more women ) .
the fundamental difficulty in planning for enhanced longevity is that we do n’t know whether this will actually happen . but what if our wish is given ? what good is life if we can not maintain our standards of living ? living a long time is one of our deepest wishes , and medical and economic progress offer hope to be fulfilled . some researchers report that average human lifespan could reach 90 years , or more by mid-century .
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to antagonize the political and business elites who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , as well as a talent for communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , he finds himself in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future , and vault himself to the country ’s pantheon of great leaders . to that end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact ” for mexico might serve as a useful model . in short , if jokowi is to forge a national consensus around the institutions that indonesia needs , he will need to achieve across that political divide .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct the other standard setters , reviewing the implementation of standards by individual countries , and publicize the results . it should give the fsb a statutory personality , enshrined in the fsb . currently , the board has no formal status , and only low , though high-quality , permanent staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . the imf is far too political a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog .
to be sure , a “ pussy riot could hardly be categorized as musicians . ” both the feminist chants and primitive chords were secondary to the spectacle . they were far more interested in creating visual images ; after all , they were the first to do so . in fact , dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna rallied support for women . to be sure , the pussy riot could hardly be classified as musicians .
in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting the oil companies to develop new fields and retard their investment prior to sharing profits . that also means terminating the government co-financing its operating costs , and demanding that its oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall . moreover , tony chukwueke , a dpr head , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run petroleum corporation , and turn the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing state that may dominate the market in rio de guinea and other emerging-market countries . in the early 1990 ’s , desperate short of a hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting the petroleum companies to develop new fields and recoup their investments even before they have been sharing profits . the ministry of petroleum ( dpr ) , a regulatory agency for the petroleum industry , has renounced these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on firms reversing the deadline .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq have not been the whole story ; many countries , too , have ramped up monitor and policing of domestic media and ordinary citizens . freedom of expression and personal privacy , governments claimed , would need to curb security . but the damage has been felt particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terrorist regulation has often been used as a tool to muffle the voices of those who offer independent or alternative views , particularly the view that is critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by resorting to security as a pretext to depoliticize russia ’s media legislation , explicitly shielding journalists by censorship , the government undermined journalism enormously .
but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not his industry only , its verdicts and betrays , instead of serving you , so long as he sacrifices it to your views ” with them . for example , colombian opponents of the peace deal appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the us military and the farc , rather than to national particularism , as occurred in the united states and the netherlands . nonetheless , they were all motivated by a desire of scuttle governments and institutions to defy them . populist campaigns at major referenda this year have differed in important respects . but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you ; not his industry only ; his verdict , his verdict and betrays ; instead of serving you ; assuming that he sacrifices it to your position .
this is at least an even more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified by the way that the artist behaved in the private sector . in other words , bad behavior – or even supposed bad behavior – can be caused by artistic works simply because we dislike the way that performer behaved in their arts . but now that we know the accusations against a comedian and film director , we are being coerced , scott ’s view , to reappraise the work in that light . to a bookish young man , booallen , the anxious intellectual that still gets a girl has a sort of role model . there may be something sinister and immoral in movies that we should take into account .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign and was subsequently jailed for corruption . indonesia ’s house speaker , setya novanto , was also forced to resign after he had been caught ready to extort money from a mining subsidiary freeport-mcmoran . likewise , indonesia ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign and was subsequently jailed for corruption . and public officials , too , have been prosecuted . and indonesia ’s special tribunal for corruption crimes has just sentenced the country ’s former energy minister and mineral resources , jerusalem wacik , to four years in prison .
for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue propping up their countries ’ dependence on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than they are in implementing tough structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . but what looks good in theory has proven difficult to execute in practice . most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing such maneuvers . a so-called “ superb de-leveraging ” ” entails some combination of internal reform , finance , and the judicious use of a market-pricing mechanism . for that reason , many countries endured painful distortions that had aggravated perhaps avoidable slumps , led to a surge in unemployment , and , at worst , eroded potential growth .
working groups cooperating with the russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade . it describes how the meeting ’s attendees had focused not only on humanitarian aid , but rather on serving as some kind of shadow government . it is true that working groups cooperating with the russian authorities have been established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy , and transportation infrastructure , and business . the bild document is a report published by the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission ” on providing humanitarian aid to the affected areas in the southeast of donetsk and luhansk . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustration felt by ukraine ’s government . stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article based on a classified documentary revealing how breakaway region of eastern ukraine is “ treated like parts of russia ’s sovereign region . ”
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and thrive , but rather on how it can shift its own relationship with europe , there should be an almost no doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will bring about that negotiation . let us be clear , too , about “ renegotiate ” the terms of eu membership , ” ” ” ” ” ” a haven from those who would like to leave but persuade people that it is truly no longer an adjustment . there will be varying degrees of politeness . but they wo n’t thank the us , and that does n’t accommodate us . when , under a “ adjustment ” , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the process goes to obtain very rough “ ( as it will ) , say , “ well , a pity , but now the adjustment does n’t seem enough .
a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” but they need help , and the programs that offer scholarships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . gender equity in stem is achievable , with many african scholars demonstrating the world in terms of progress . likewise , it deprives the continent of the talents and contributions that are needed to drive development and progress . the causes of africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stem gender imbalance often outweigh a leaky pipe : girls start out with interest and aptitude , but drop off the disciplines at different points in their educational ways .
the advantages of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . global firms waste the time , and the resources , on the whole , on their largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( to benefit only the banks that operate like middlemen ) . different monies are not just uncomfortable with their tourists , who arrive home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coin . the current system ’s advantages are both risky and inefficient . and , however farfetched a global currency might sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard seems equally implausible .
after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically consolidating the peace settlement ’s chances of long-term success . in the past , transitional agreements have amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , that could turn out to be turned into something more troubled by events . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically consolidating a peace settlement with the chances of a long-term success . their offer – which would need to move much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative , or the portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to an eventual settlement .
as a result , the umno finds itself being squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for more “ talibanization ” of the country , and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power . these are not politicians , but former idealists , who have insisted that the punishment is being used justly and can not be questioned , because there is divine sanction . in fact , most are anti-umno and the support of the pas . these are brazil ’s members not so much of the politicians , but the former idealists who insist that their national goals are being used justly and can not be questioned because there is divine sanction .
in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means of bridging a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific . in particular , an american would provide a strong incentive for japan to join the tpp , given that an american might want the united asia-pacific economic community rather than a partition between asia and the pacific . the us would obviously need a strong response to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta with the us to preserve its own role in world trade , and in the supply chains that dominate the asian economies . on this front , both japan and south korea would need to find some means of bridging a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific . it would probably seek to expand and deepen the intellectual-property trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , a trade deal that us president barack obama committed with the american people last year . because japan would not want to be disconnected from the u.s. on strategic grounds , it might indeed embrace america ’s invitation .
for the boj , a key problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and thus its inability to play the role of the chief economist . but , while it quietly makes many important technical contributions to various debates , it conveniently hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach forcefully beyond its own jurisdiction . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a collection of national states that have yet to determine whether they favor greater unity or more decentralization . as a premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play the leadership role of europe in discussing fiscal policy , trade policy , and demographic transition . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence .
these outcomes were foreshadowed by a study last year by anne case and angus deaton , who showed that life expectancy is on the decline of large segments of the population , including america ’s so-called middle-class rust belt men . and while america might be on the extreme-right trend , things were little better elsewhere . why has the american backlash come just when the economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ? and , while america might well have been at the extremes of this trend , things were little better elsewhere . but , with rock-bottom incomes stagnated for over a third of a century ( and declining for a substantial share ) , health data simply confirmed that things were n’t going well for very large swaths of the country .
indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement solely to join negotiations , which seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people with minimal demands . it would require bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to a political dialogue . for israel , the cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to be going nowhere , because of the parties ’ irreconcilable differences over the core issues , all other peacemaking efforts are more tactical than strategic . in neither do the conditions yet exist for an imminent leap from war to peace , nor are the parties themselves anticipating that they would have to happen .
regardless of their decisions , other eu member countries would need to decide whether to keep the euro in its truncated form or revert to its own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . this would trigger the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and perhaps also to the franc – relative to the euro . of course , france and germany would have to implement intermediate arrangements in order to safeguard their banking systems in ’ stability . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro within their truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro in their truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly giving it to the revived deutsche mark or the franc .
none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not allowed academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression , something sorely missed in today ’s islamic republic . indeed , in its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , writers , and researchers around the world . for such muslims ’ rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorist force , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down on hardball intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women ’s activists , or just about anyone with vision and wishes to exchange them with others . thus , the islamic revolutionaries in 1979 made a point of preserving zoroastrian firebrand temples .
to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , a leadership group should include a representative from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union ( eeu ) , and nato . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from existing arrangements . a leadership group ’s top priority would be to address the current crisis . initially , the leadership group could include representatives from the core group of states – such as france , germany , italy , poland , france , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered and connected to their respective presidents and prime ministers . as a result , the leadership group would represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and it would provide a desperately needed vehicle for outlining their resolve .
the industrial world now depends far more on ( mostly from foreign ) oil than it did then . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and its reversal will mark a major drag on recovery . finally , there are two major differences between the 1930 ’s and today ’s . as some confidence returned in the end of the recapitalized banking system and long bond yields plummeted with the fall in inflation , mortgage , and other borrowing mechanisms to revive , promote economic activity , and stabilize real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . the other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat mistakes – above all , trade protectionism , in the 1930s .
to be sure , our expectations will always be in tension with reality . but dark clouds have set to rise on the horizon , for example . terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and starvation taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have emerged , calling on closed borders and new walls , and their denial of expertise has led heldin to a “ bleak truth ” : that “ we may no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” the scientists continue to unravel the us with stunning discoveries ; and billions of people worldwide have lifted out of poverty .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it might mean on the ground that remains to be seen as inspectors beginning to flow to syria , let us hope that chemical-weapons stockpiles are being destroyed . a cooperative us-russia relationship is vital if the international system , now near-dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . rather , the agreement ’s major significance consists in hitting all of it : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva that most traditional us diplomatic venues have been working together and cut an agreement on an issue of intense mutual interest . in these times , weeks and months ahead , the arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , start a new era in which america and russia work together on other pressing global issues as well . the agreement in syria might accomplish something else : america might recognize that , lo and behold , there are other ways to solve problems than by dropping bombs .
there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than in the periphery . to be sure , though multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing , and they may exert pressure at a time when they make new investment decisions ; after all , their flexibility does not compare the very freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . moreover , financial capital is better situated in a global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it moves hard . the rewards of global capitalism are unevenly spread . capital is learning in a far better position than labor , because capital is more mobile .
i have long defaulted on the observation of a five-year forward price for lack of a more fundamentals-based approach for thinking about the equilibrium price of oil . as i explained in january 2015 , a brent crude oil carry prices less vulnerable to speculative fluctuations and therefore to a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . for my part , i suspect ; but i would not be surprised if this happened . the graph i prepared , made prior to the latest oil-price acceleration in early november , shows a five-year forward oil price picking up after a period of some stability . for my part , i suspect ; but i would n’t be surprised if this were happening .
the dpj was established in 1998 as the “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people who had abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party ( ccp ) . that should come as no surprise anyone at the time . but the biggest problem for hatoyama ’s government lies in the fact that the dpj took power without a coherent national-security policy . that does not amount to a coherent government-run program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration swiftly revealed the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness . the dpj ’s only reason to be yet , though , is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed a japan-us security treaty , and pnp vigorously opposes koizumi ’s era privatizations .
time and again , defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of every one of us . in a democratic state , these engagement with defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of defense at the forefront . drafting an effective defense of the state is unthinkable without at much greater or no level of involvement in every state ’s institutions . as a result , many regard defense expenditures even a luxury , if not an outright waste of money . the region ’s new republics face none of this concrete or visible enemies .
more investment might enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research might spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . better investment might enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . i can personally vouch for spillover benefits from this type of research . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies .
likewise , iran backed america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . in the american-iranian equation , it was america , not iran , that pursued rigid ideological diplomacy . and , when america forces overran saddam hussein ’s army during the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that frames all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . iran , too , backed america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . iranians also pledged to halt us obstruction of the israeli-arab peace process .
and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and an extensive modernization of its nuclear arsenal . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty ( abm ) treaty . still , russia , the us , and the rest of the world will not permit a return to american hegemony over the world . at the same time , america has long pursued military superiority . recently , putin made this plain by unveiling a host of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , because of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ”
its know-it-alone attitude grates almost everywhere . it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , magic ulant , and prim . but , in copenhagen , the structure established by the treaty of lisbon has failed miserably . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and a rapidly dwindling one ) and comprising mainly post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly viewed as fringe . beyond the failure of the eu in copenhagen , the eu has perhaps several other problems .
when the world ’s largest companies and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibilities as buyers , sellers , and producers , and the forces making a firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow , or risk being left behind . but larger companies also have bigger capabilities to become a force for good , both locally and globally . those that operate in the ethical manner and seek to improve everyone ’s life with ties to manufacture , marketing , and distributing their products will benefit kudos , more enterprise , or simply unsingled out as the wrong actor . the same goes for wages and labor practices in the us . if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it does not permit wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will drive change in packaging every retail sector .
despite massive increases in aid dollars over the past few years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those on the ground are largely cut off from that process . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . simply put , western countries ’ current approach is not working . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and 40 of the international ngos involved in providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money that they receive are being made outside the us .
in his meeting with ceos from major oil and gas companies , francesco told them that our desire to ensure energy for all should not lead to the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change , owing to the catastrophic rise of global temperatures , harsher conditions , and rising rates of extreme poverty . and he reminded executives that “ civilization requires energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! ” francis underscored the moral dimension of the problem : “ we must confront one another ? ” the same level of corruption of purpose is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewable-energy sources . he noted that the oil companies involved are “ engaged in ” the continued quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , whereas the paris agreement clearly urged most fossil-fuel investments underground .
likewise , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy livestock were fed meat and bone foods made from infected cattle . the resulting epizootic ( the animal epidemic ) affected more than 280,000 cows . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic rituals commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies that were commonplace in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are notoriously infectious .
from every angle , the extremity of this state of affairs , in which those with access to credit need not get it , is highly problematic . all of this slowing social mobility , already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine worries about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . in the coming round , as the system slowly implode , even those with sound balance sheets would impinge on , accelerating their disengagement from a deleveraging world economy . if the left does n’t take part , this leads to a gradual and then accelerated , renewed deleveraging into the economic system , with the top first-round costs , a prolonged jobless and growth crisis , borne disproportionately on those least able to suffer them . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many homeowners with very high legacy interest rates and balances , which exceed their homes ’ ’ ’ market value .
only a handful of groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile in 1962 , wherever trappings ( or one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , took charge of arms in pointless . in country after country , left-wing guerillas were defeated , pacified , brought into the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly apparent that the armed struggle of power in latin american countries had been going out of fashion . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere had rendered a guerilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , the use of arms was nonsensical . by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly apparent that the armed struggle of power in latin american countries had collapsed .
european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms have lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , petty businessmen , and low-level civil servants . today , the social foundations of left-wing politics have vanished . the social base of interwar fascism made it sensible to see this as a center-right party . at that time , the working class dependably underpinned the parties of the left .
in that case , the event was supposed to reflect this complexity . it was supposed to be organized and conducted with due regard to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed upon by the greek people . instead , greece received what is now a hastily arranged referendum . it should have been organized and implemented with due regard to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed by the greek people . it should have been a careful and deliberate sounding .
as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision have featured in conflicts between europeans and the middle easterners for centuries . in other words , while culture plays an even larger role in shaping interpretations of human rights than the many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary about passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . moreover , various communities prioritize human rights differently . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is enough in itself ; but for others , as william galston of the washington-based institution notes , human-rights language hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . on the issue of female circumcision , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and state authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives .
updated principles would maintain strategic communication and healthy bilateral relationships ; harness one another ’s strengths and extend cooperation on infrastructure , investment , and other fields ; deepen cultural ties and mutual understanding and friendships ; expand cooperation and friendships ; broaden coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to protect developing countries ’ legitimate interest ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela , with president xi jinping offered a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationships with each other in terms of the renowned pancha sheela : shared respect for one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in one another ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . new delhi is about the number five in sino-indian relations .
a practical development strategy recognizes the need for public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – to complement private investment . the bank also pressed for the privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and roads and power grids , and grossly underfinanced these critical industries . the result was a disaster in africa , with its farm productivity stagnant for decades . for 25 years , the bank tried to bring governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasant to fend for themselves . this extreme , free-market ideology also called “ structural adjustment , ” ” ” ” ” went against the practical lessons of development successes in china and the rest of asia .
when america betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , it does n’t hesitate to take advantage of the leeway foreign leaders give it . meanwhile , the perception that it holds america on the ropes gives putin continued to silencing his opponents . already , it has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government an excuse to bar him at the ballot box . putin ’s authority may seem unshakeable , but it is in fact propped up by propaganda and fear . when america betrays its own values to avoiding challenging russia , it reinforces putin ’s hand considerably .
across europe , calls for a “ affordable energy ” quickly become a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green-energy commitments . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting laws mandating a 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders openly illustrate the emerging fault line of green taxes . with energy-price movements moving center stage , the dangers that already-weak incentive to invest in low-carbon energy are likely to be further undermined . recent debates within the uk illustrate the emerging fault line .
a kleptocracy of government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state and is intent on blocking any reform that might jeopardize their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated . rampant corruption and rising inequality , coupled with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese throughout the world , particularly the middle class , which has once again had high hopes for reform . indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year was decidedly bleak . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons that will remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness has never actually started . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has cited the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral renegotiations until the two major powers that currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile make further major cuts . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral renegotiations until the two major powers that currently hold 95 % of the stockpile of nuclear weapons make further major cuts . in fact , negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons that remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness has never actually started .
the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a rising economy , has delivered , for the first time in three decades , bringing normality to colombia ’s cities and increasingly , acting with peace and the rule of law to much of its great juno regions of uribe , has brought down waves of defections from the farc , which is now down to 9,000 farc guerrillas in 16,000 in 2001 . in that process , he has transformed himself into a country that has been at the helm of drug barons and the verge of becoming a failed state . that hostage rescue mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum earlier this year ( a moment when chávez ’s own army high command reportedly refused his demand to fudge the result ) . but uribe ’s advantage in the farc ’s apparent defeat extends well beyond colombia . indeed , many farc defectors nowadays prefer to fight for their cause within the ballot box under the new leftist polo alternativo democratico .
but the fact remains that an important fraction of the world ’s 30 million displaced children are currently being denied both education and the prospects for future employment . across the world , as many as 35 conflict zones , 75 million more children are currently being denied to the education they need , and the prospects for future work are dim . clearly , there will also be an urgent need for international education aid to scale up . aside from mobilizing private-sector sources of finance , we must make aid already available ( this year , ’s $ 13 billion ) go far further than it did in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investments in education . yet , with the $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone coming home , it is also clear that we need a new approach .
and , indeed , a significant share of greece ’s government debt migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . but the risks were not contained strongly . the margin for error among major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are still not strongly capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses from greece ’s entrepreneurial companies can threaten bank equity , prompting the bankers to cut back on lending . in that sense , those public institutions have already bailed out private institutions .
by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in combination with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers were able to ensure market-efficiencies . as a result , these efforts lowered the costs of annual hiv treatment from more than $ 10,000 per patient during 2001 to just under $ 100 in 2016 . as a result , these efforts lowered the cost of annual hiv treatments from just over $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to just under $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale were allowed suppliers to shift from low-volume , higher-yielding solutions to high-volume , lower-margin , lower-margin profit models . it would be helpful , for example , with programs to track how many people with high blood pressure were diagnosed and set on treatments , what share of those seeking treatment had reached blood-pressure control levels , and what treatment levels would be required to hold premature deaths by their desired targets .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving medications , rather than whether what will be killed is part of an epidemic . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , the american people are demanding what becomes known as “ tour plus ” that would bolster intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries have only a right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergency situations . just before last year ’s us trade talks in cancun , the us was able to make certain kinds of concessions in order to avoid the introduction of drugs as permitted under any circumstances that could save lives . to those confronting the prospect of dying , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , rather than whether what is being killed by a person is part of an epidemic . the global consensus , reflected in the commission report , calls for more exceptions to allow , say , affordable drugs to be made available in whatever case they can save lives .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export-led growth would expose the chinese economy to the risks of overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see the us recovery from america ’s recovery as reality . and , if it does , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly , at best . meanwhile , rates of us spending growth in china will not change dramatically . if it does , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly .
a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on a supra-national question that is now aligning its policy agenda . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on country or political work , were discouraged . broader national engagement , combined with ngos , the local media , and a broad spectrum of policymakers , is now viewed around the world as an integral part of an effective country ’s advice and program to implement , just as fundamental for the fund ’s “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ surveillance ” function ” function under its articles of agreement . the situation today looks very different . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( most notably the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts .
and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to protect education from attack , the global partnership for education ( gpe ) , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . thirty of the country has recently signed on to lucens , or to secure school guidelines that instruct their military institutions to stop being used as instruments of war . this has meant funding for school guards , fortifications , and oversight facilities to reassure parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their school is safe to participate . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for child and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from school a “ “ trigger violation ” to use the naming of terrorist organizations at the un secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council .
as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus in order to compensate for another and stronger domestic demand growth , through delayed fiscal austerity , in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of all good gdp data will generate a trend . the rest of europe finds itself in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not have woken up in france ; but economic performance has been anemic at best at best , fueled in large part by the mini housing boom . this is why greece is insolvent and a coercive restructuring of its sovereign debt is unavoidable . that is why spain and ireland are at serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on relatively sounder fiscal footing , but had flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform , can not be complacent .
jospin and chirac have done nothing to implement a major liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) , agreed among eu parliamentarians in lisbon two years ago , which means that the benefits of liberalization are denied to france at a time when the public perceives the eu to be imposing all sorts of constraints on the french way up in business . but europe and europe might seem to be increasingly catalysts for public resentment , too . europe and the euro , however , might be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . so europe was once thought to amount to abandoning the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception francaise ) , and to launch serious reforms that engage the french electorate . ” the shame of le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and tackle the country ’s problems .
a modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and , indeed , national identity , are under attack . certainly much of this type of sentiment occurred in the 1930 ’s , when a populist response to the great depression attributed it to the sinister force of “ “ international capital ” ( icis ) . an alternative scenario suggests that these fears emanate from a very real problem . people in places like france and poland , worried about national decline , are seeking to blame for somebody outside the eu . modern economic growth still depends on in almost every advanced industrialized country on imported energy ( norway ’s is the exception ) .
abbas ’s son , mazen , is running a local advertising agency . his other name , abu mazen , is no revolutionary name , reflecting the practice of naming a person like the father of his eldest son . an attempt at a primary to elect fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the outcome . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s pattern of political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever chance he needed to retain the allegiance of fatah ’s leadership , newly named pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , indigenous militants . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was a political suicide , for he lacked any conceivable outcome and had done very little to secure fatah ’s discipline .
new york – for four decades , ledra street in the heart of nicosia was a symbol of a divided cyprus . it was a window on what the future could bring . last week , i visited the ledra street marse . last week , i visited a ledra street marse . last week , i visited a ledra at the event . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that splitting the capital for the north and the south was opened .
such a turn of events would , for example , be the equivalent of establishing east asian free trade area ( nafta ) , which asean +3 envisioned a decade ago . furthermore , the formation of a china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . if it does occur , other countries like australia , new zealand , and , most important , india could try to jump on the bandwagon . but if the proposals being discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its level of integration and significance to the global economy . furthermore , its formation of a china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction .
some 50 million people are infected with the tubercle bacilli . compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , the urogenital infection that lasts several weeks at most . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with the time it takes about roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as the canonical drugs , and at a cost that rises with a ten-hundred factor . as a result , adherence to tb treatments is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant outbreaks ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . while this additional cost may be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive treatment for poor countries , implying no or insufficient treatment .
of course , market forces play a role as well , too ; but markets are shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt system of campaign finance and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . in a country with money trumps democracy , however , such laws have become predictably frequent . there are market economies that do better , both in terms of both gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of the population . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over all else , but that does n’t allow lay-offs of their student debt , regardless of how inadequate the education provided , enriches bankers and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent .
by contrast , former us secretary of state and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed welfare and medicare reform . with so few presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance or a conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . either way , an american would face growth-constraining tax hikes and limits on contributions that can make public investment a country ’s future . by contrast , former us secretary of state hillary clinton and trump are proposing to expand unfunded programs .
this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party , under wolfgang schuessel , did not do . in all of these countries , however , the political discourse about all the democratic parties ostracize those racist party groups and parties : british conservatives had never entered an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from its own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s own representatives . confronted with an election outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party ( epp ) , they have produced a faustian pact with haider . there can be good political motivations why another alliance with the social democrats has been unappealing to schulz ’s party ( for one , it would not be german chancellor in such a coalition ) . the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries , in britain , france , even in some of the scandinavian countries .
congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation are likely to keep the debt-to-gdp ratio at 91.2 % by 2027 . a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would call for an additional debt-financed spending , or a tax cut at all . but even a massive spending program like the $ 900 billion american recovery and the reinvestment act of 2009 would add only about three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by tax reform would be to raise this to around 97 % . it is hard to believe that the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by tax reform would be to raise that to 97 % .
the west african economic community ( ecowas ) has strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of the people of côte d’ivoire , and appeals to all stakeholders to embrace the results announced by an electoral commission ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in march . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called on all parties to “ “ respect and fully implement the verdict of an ivorian people ” as proclaimed by an independent electoral commission . its peace and security council met , and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to build a fait accompli that undermined the electoral process . the african union , too , responded promptly . and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would hold those who should act to thwart the democratic process and the will of the voters responsible for their actions .
indeed , the bitter legacy of the invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even when “ red lines ” cross , but also apparently were unwilling to shoulder any serious burden in maintaining its global leadership position . america ’s ’s ’s vacillating policy toward syria undoubtedly suggests just that . china ’s leaders displayed their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . but , if america is no longer willing to lead ? seoul , has the world entered a new era of chaos ?
ethanol accounts for over 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s ’s energy giant and one of its largest firms in latin america – expects that share to rise to more than 80 % by 2020 . but it would n’t have worked without the critical role that competition has played out . our research shows that industrial policies have been successful in promoting a competitive bioethanol industry in brazil . a massive stimulus package , prompted by the 1970 ’s from oil prices , has given way to entirely new industries . our research shows that industrial policy was successful in promoting a competitive bioethanol industry in brazil .
“ childish creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report “ and its whole mental world remains annoyed . ” the ilo contends that its children suffer greatly from being forced to perform as “ little young adults . ” pakistani parents sometimes maim their children to make them beguiling beggars . the ilo contends that its children suffer enormously when they are compelled to perform as “ little adults . ”
asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities . but , despite its riches and military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – is set to falter in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . japan alone possesses the country ’s foreign exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of that in america ’s treasury bills . the annual us military budget , which has shot up to $ 150 billion since bush took office , will need to be slashed in the coming years to get that budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . through bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures – which have helped project political power a total of $ 500 billion a year – america will need to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush ’s budget is reelected .
in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce a “ golden dinar ” ” as an answer to an american-us-based currency system . to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . russian theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography . so far , while there have not been any globally destructive monetary onslaught outside the realm of theaters . russia ’s most seductive alternative now seems to have been gold .
if the attack persists , speculators can force a government to default on its debt , unless it can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply . of course , a single short seller can not “ make a job ” the asset price ( unless he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him the billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but , if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , they can cajole its price , thus forcing greece to pay ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . my profit for correctly assume this bearish observation is thus € 1.65 meters ; the € 9.1 m i earned by bonds when i borrowed on january 1 minus the € 7.2 m that i must pay to buy on june 30 ; minus the € 250,000 in interest , which i had to pay goldman sachs for a six-month loan . voilà , however , if a bunch of speculators can force a government to default on its debt , unless it can find some way to fund its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . slowing chinese economic growth earlier this year was due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices , by tightening monetary policy . all of these sorts of austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . clear statements by policymakers , all the way up to xi , have indicated that no further weakening of the economy next year , even if that means accepting bigger budget deficits or easing up on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks .
finished cloth was then exported to the rest of the world . slaves from africa were used to grow cotton in the south united states that was then shipped to english mills . this was the age of peasant blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved just enough to enable the creation of global supply chains . the cotton was one of the earliest industries to witness this shift .
i do n’t know what “ the progressive direction of the advanced culture ” is , but the advanced culture has played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous weeds campaign , ” “ the anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ eliminate demons and evil heresy campaigns . ” is it really “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? it need not “ represented ” to be “ represented . ” such obscurantism only generates a culture of stultifying with its uniformity . like the grassroots blade pusade beneath the stone , culture knows how and where direction to search for light .
indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries is fairly clear : legal penalties , social ostracism , and mobs of justice . other leaders , ranging from the gambia to former president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , made interviews with the same vein . uganda ’s president , yoweri , followed suit when signing the anti-gay bill into law in 2014 . these official attitudes have caused severe suffering for africa ’s gay and lesbians . in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do .
perhaps more important , they have an insufficient voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . so far , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest among the 57 participating countries that could effectively hand it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decision-making role . that underscores the key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s ’s ’s birth approaches . will it turn out to be the development banks of countries like china , brazil , and turkey , or will pursue the multilateral agenda according to the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? perhaps more importantly , they have insufficient voice in the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , most recently , governments have tended to undershoot the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . until the 1980s , it was routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” multiplier ” ratio , the ratio of gdp to changing government spending , was stable and larger than one . contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists are really aware of the magnitude of the aftermath of fiscal policy , at least much more than it used to be . they typically assumed that it would lower public spending by the us dollar during the short term would reduce gdp by 50 cents on the long run ; according to blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions is a decline from $ 0.90-1.70 .
at the same time , people all over the world must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy enemies . yet , because the public is educated about the particular threats posed by nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , that stance becomes increasingly difficult to maintain . for far too long , city dwellers have been used as pawns on a global nuclear-armed chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of actually playing a game . military planners , who regard the use of nuclear weapons as likely , have given scant thought to those living in cities on their destination lists . making matters worse , there have been suggestions on their actual use .
these groups have been quick to capitalize on the economic and social pains felt in many eu member states , particularly given that europeans are unconvinced that the worst is at hand . and the massive prosperity gap between the “ “ old ” and the “ new left ” eu member states continues to define voting patterns . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the mantra of eu traditionalists in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( epp ) , was also apparent . moreover , right-wing populist parties have suffered from growing public frustration with the eu itself . the influence of the widening divide between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” ” with france in the center ( but head of south ) , was also apparent .
today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that only 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a small number in namibia and kenya . no , this is a long time rarer and costlier : it is pulverized by the horn of white rhino horn . not golden powder , as lesser moguls might well offer ; nor could the purest cocaine claim . a half-century ago , the white rhinos abounded around the horn of africa . they were sprinkled for glasses , filled by untrustworthy scotch that was sprinkled by fine powder .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . the world needs to unite behind a holistic drive to discredit the ideology that gives the power of the extremists , and to restore the hope and dignity of those whom it would recruit . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent in our own security , as is apparent in our current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to stop isis from learning us that lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not put ourselves on the path of fires of fanaticism by force alone . isis surely can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that now assembling , and with the uae actively supporting it .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof , berkeley , michael spence , for stanford university , and myself , for our work on the `` asymmetry of information . '' they knew that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate information imperfections would resemble a world with perfect information . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information were likely to have profound effects on how the economics behaved . they knew that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate information imperfections would resemble a world with perfect information . this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof , the university of california ’s center at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the `` asymmetry of information . ''
under the threat of collapse of the entire system , safety net meant to help unfortunate individuals meet the exigencies of life , generously extended to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies . it certainly did n’t serve homehomeowners who lose out on their homes , the workers who lost their jobs , the pensioners who saw their retirement funds go vanish , or the taxpayers who bailed out hundreds of billions in order to bail out the banks . the bankers ’ pursuit of their self-interest ( greed ) did n’t lead to society ’s well-being ; it did n’t even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . we are used to think of a government that transferred money from the well off to the poor . we are used to think of a government that transferred money out to the poor .
what matters is that the constitution requires a super-majority , rather than – as is an easy , reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament adopted in 2010 to join a military alliance . an equally practical outcome would align with the principle that us president barack obama has highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions on russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to “ chart its own path . ” ukraine ’s position , of course , may change in the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts creating the needed consensus to abandon neutrality . above all , it would help ukraine ’s peoples divide between inherently antagonistic identities – and to live together peacefully . this approach would align with the principle that us president barack obama has highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions on russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to chart its own path .
in an institutional setting , long-term reform should aim to shift the level of benefit relative to wages , based on individual savings accounts , as in chile , opposition to the status quo run , pay-as-you-go ( payg ) pension systems . political elites -- at home and abroad -- will need to shift public attention to the looming fiscal crisis . in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , the retirement ages needed to appeal to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability payments , in particular ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . the public should understand the crucial distinction between a one-time transfer to the old workers at the beginning of the market reform , as well as a long run pension policy . in the coming years , the most important fiscal task facing eastern europe and the caucasus will need to shift public attention to the looming fiscal crisis .
but , either way , policymakers in the advanced economies need to recognize that their inflation-targeting outlook places a wider range of dynamic possibilities than they have regarded so far . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little assurance regarding the timing of this scenario . but this may well be followed by a second phase , in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industry concentration begin to offset the one-time structural impact of the new technology that has been widely adopted . focusing too heavily on a cyclical rather than a structural one may involve serious risks to the future of economic well-being and financial stability . but , either way , advanced-country policymakers must recognize that their inflation-targeting outlook is becoming subject to a wider range of dynamic possibilities than what they have deemed so far .
the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . groups would operate under a shared mandate across all un agencies , led by un operations directors in each country . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally into all parts of the un agenda , not just in discrete areas pertaining to “ female ” issues . multidisciplinary , a un ” groups could be deployed on a site to break with departmental barriers and confront the appropriate challenges . the un ’s sclerotic agendas , peace and security ; sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-isolated institutional silos .
each is on an average of 38 cents per day below its extreme poverty line . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in its latest survey , india is home to the world ’s largest absolute number of poor people on the planet . for india , that cost adds up to nearly $ 11 billion . every dollar spent yields an average of 38 cents per day below the extreme poverty line . for india , that cost adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion of exchange-rate .
in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbated by the volatility of international financial markets and commodity prices . indeed , when oda is n’t dictated by geopolitics , it can have strong positive effects on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than creating markets and guaranteeing property rights . more fiscal space may be created by improving governance and boosting the tax base , essentially because it supports infrastructure investment and human development . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to provide incentives for short-termism toward economic policies that limit long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby sparing growth .
the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily rising number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only make matters worse . coca cultivation was slashed by a quarter over the last five years , and cocaine seizures have nearly doubled . but now demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or dropping . cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states has launched a major campaign against the sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . european leaders need to get serious about europe ’s cocaine problem .
berkeley – it has just been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and has the power under the tenth amendment of the american constitution to upend democratic institutions . yet , with just 20 % of americans now convinced the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while congressional trust fell below 9 % . among congressional republicans , in particular , a “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism undermines the federal government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . by contrast , a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while congressional trust fell to less than 9 % . according to some pessimists , the american constitution was not intended to address a country ’s challenges so sharply divided by means of income , race , and partisanship .
for example , for over a decade now , germany ’s police force , a customs service , and even the bundeswehr ordering was ordering uniforms from the state-owned garment factories in the apparel town of danherzinsky , named after the father of the red terror and the founder of the soviet-era kgb , feliks danherzinsky . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner at the very moment that the eu is trying to isolate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . similar examples of such cynicism abound . the european parliament has ruthlessly denounced belarus as europe ’s latest dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , a country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . this is particularly true when there is a chance of saving or making money .
at the same time , it was the european central bank that unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) of long-term refinancing operation ( ltro ) , which pulled the european banking system back out of the brink . bond yields in southern europe were soaring and a pervasive sense of apprehension and a fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . finally , in december , crucial action had been taken . there would have been a “ fiscal treaty , ” ” which would reinforce the stability and growth pact , and , importantly , involves automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to these rules . but political leadership was sorely lacking , however .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado , the stock exchanges ’s special-segment , providing strong protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view . their only recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms out of the exchange rate . in the absence of a reliable courts , they can not prosecute to enforce their rules . but stock exchanges are having limits , particularly in brazil . the novo mercado has dealt with this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed companies to court arbitration .
following its targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war , but it does not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , although the us may well be at a turning point for an improvement politically , the data that it emerged over the past month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s ’s short-term outlook . new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing the prior year ’s developments to anticipate what the new one holds in store . following its targeted killing by the united states of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
and translating comprehensive universities into the specialized institutes of science and technology in the former soviet union and formerly communist china did nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies . in fact , the proliferation of highly specialized universities across europe has also failed to buttress economic growth or employment . in theory , of course , a simultaneous shift in a number of countries toward stem-focused secondary and tertiary education , with large concomitant productivity gains , could lessen the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such effort . but , again , this contradicts the traditional dynamics of trade , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . but , again , this scenario is highly unlikely , at least in the foreseeable future .
first , all were caused by a profound social-welfare crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , big budget deficits , rising inflation , and devaluation . without a severe crisis , no major reform was likely . second , a change in government through elections gave rise to reforms , giving them a democratic legitimacy . reform need not require a failed state of emergency , as is often argued . third , reforms require a powerful leader to work .
but , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investment to disseminate capacity and tap new markets that they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted , many companies have so far favored ( or pressured by activist investors ) to bail it back to their shareholders . moreover , because companies have had a significant improvement in their operating efficiency and lengthened maturities on their debt , they need a lot less of precautionary savings than they did in the past . non-financial firms have attained their resilience and agility , which contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions on the functioning of some households and governments worldwide , which have , so far , faced properly a legacy of undue leverage . but one looks at it all , the corporate sector in the advanced economies broadly and in the us has as strong as it has been in many years . indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , monetary holdings by the corporate sector in the united states have piled up one-quarter after one-quarter , reaching all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates .
purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary liability is the danger that the regime of its evil twin to the north will implode and inundate it with starvation refugees . indonesia , moreover , has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a people . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , recently vied with venezuela for its leadership of a “ america in decline ” ” ” to a cheering section . the same is true of turkey , with its robust banking sector , thriving domestic markets , growing significance in the middle east and energy policies , nato membership , european union membership bid , and ties to ethnic cousins throughout central asia . perhaps the most compelling case of all is that from indonesia , indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , a relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that was bright during the global recession .
a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because the major powers will always be immune to intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of its inherent military power . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies ; between other criteria , the test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and the coming to war against any major powers in order to protect a suffering minority there would surely trigger a far broader conflagration . no state that aspires to win the support or collaboration of others can afford to be comfortable with an unambiguous double standard . the bottom line is that values matter in transnational relationships , with states that place great emphasis on fostering values being extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . and , worst of all , there is to be perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
already , the country ’s worsening track record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff-free access to the european market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” regime . the last thing cambodia needs is also to risk economic reprisal to help chinese firms judge american tariffs . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its own tariff-free access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” scheme . this might be good for a corrupt party , but it is bad for cambodia . the ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there has been a fined american reinforces the suspicion that hun sen ’s administration will continue turning a blind eye .
the global economy risks being getting stuck with deflation in the “ new mediocre ” : a protracted period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . to break free from stagnation , we also need renewed policy momentum . if the measure agreed by the g-20 in november happens to be implemented , it will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 , the equivalent of adding another $ 2 trillion in global income . at the same time , some important economies are also struggling against deflation . to break free from stagnation , we also need renewed policy momentum .
the albright report attempts to address these questions in a balanced manner . it endorses policies that capture accurately the relationship between “ outside operations ” and nato members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . for their part , what sort of relationship should nato have with its partners ? it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic and military objectives could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , weapons-reduction measures , and arms control agreements . should it undergo further simultaneous transformations and enlargement ?
it is a mistake , however , to believe that expanded deterrence depends on parity with the number of nuclear weapons . the japanese fear that america ’s credibility with expanding deterrence will be weakened if america decreases its nuclear forces towards parity with china . north koreans have violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , most worries about the regime ’s collapse in north korea , and thus about the threat of chaos on its borders . the japanese worry that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will be weakened if an american decreases its nuclear forces ’ parity rate with china . japan officially opposes a non-nuclear world treaty , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid becoming locked into nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america , at least , two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation , that was , for repealing the us legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , holding back banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the second , broadly speaking , of the democratic party , was somewhat more complicated , rooted in four observations : · first school of thought , broadly that of the united states ’ republican party , was that financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was bad . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t this then ? · in the global economy , the industrial core , at least for the time being , had been more than 60 years since financial disruptions had more than a miniscule effect on overall output and employment levels .
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course , but it should not alienate moderate voters either because more equality would be good for the economy . the democrats ’ core message for another two years ought to be that , in a plutocracy , all others lose out . concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course , but it should not alienate moderate voters either because more equality would be good for the economy . it is grotesque that so many people who oppose the benefits of such “ socialist ” policies remain convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” and that might even persuade some angry , poor trump ’s supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is n’t helping the left-behind folks in the rust belt and rural hinterlands .
but iranians have responded by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford a full-scale war and the mass-spike that would result from it . as the clock ticks down , a poor outcome becomes more likely . similarly , trump has come to believe that he can bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . yet neither side wants to be a “ “ chicken , ” because doing so would undermine its domestic political standing and empower the other side . still , with no deal through the end of the year , a clash will most likely become possible .
political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and a dearth of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . but the scaf now appears to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals . as a result , there is a growing faith within the scaf that its three “ minimal ” demands have become both unnecessary and insufficient . in the past two months , the scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community has starkly reflected changing attitudes : the need for immunity , guidance , and protections from the us , rather than you ” from you . moreover , political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and a dearth of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition .
that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers and make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than americans receives from the rest of the world . a higher debt-service cost requires a higher marginal tax rate , in turn weakening incentives and curtailing economic growth . paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than americans receives from the rest of the world . foreign investors now hold more than half of that debt , on average , in the us and europe .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will need to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable for resolving nearly all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , libya , and palestine . indeed , aside from matters associated with domestic politics and the problem of internal liberty , the choice between the major candidates hinges on the question of whether iran should seek more international integration . iran also has a key player in cooling hot spots in caucasus and central asia . a failed policy of reopening the country would quickly place the regime with very existence at risk .
exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and gdp share of inward foreign direct investment tripled . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well under 1.5 % , and overall productivity has stagnated or declined . but where that counts , in overall productivity and economic growth , the story is one of considerable disappointment . perhaps the most visible gains have gone to the outside front . if ever there were a right-leaning country to be mexico ’s poster child of new orthodoxy in economic development .
and bilateral or regional trade deals can chip away at certain barriers in the current global system . after all , many asian countries have had impressive export-led growth under the current system . services like education , banking , accountant , and insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now around two-thirds ) , and further expansion requires major changes in existing agreements . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade continually develops , and existing agreements have so far only limited adjustment capacity . after all , many asian countries have been able to achieve impressive export-led growth under the current system .
from there , researchers believed , signals move on to part of the cerebral cortex that managed body awareness , and somehow the cortex turned them into a conscious experiences . she was reminded physicians that for a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is a powerful negative sentiment . a contemporary un medical writer described the attributes of intense pain as including an extreme unpleasantness ; an ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other sensations ; a capacity to destroy the language ; and a powerful backlash against objectification . most of the time , pain appears after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in various ways , and generate signals that travel to the spinal cord , and from there to the brain . she reminds physicians that , because of a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness across the brain called the thalamus .
according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was a key event that set out to move developments that would ultimately enshrine the freedom of capital movement as the global norm . finally , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who had serving as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to en his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists conducted an abrupt volte-face , embracing globally integrated financial liberalization . then it was the turning of the organization of economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . the earliest stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the european commission ’s president and its assistant – led the way . )
de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric , aided by the first time that the republican authority in paris was being invoked over pieds noirs , who helped to take down the fourth republic . the following day , de gaulle ’s ’s face was persuaded to abandon his stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained , or fled to spain . men at the barricades had been persuaded to abandon their stronghold ; insurrectionary units in algeria declared their allegiance . de gaulle ’s defeat of the military revolt became the first time that the republican authority of paris claimed over pieds noirs , who had helped to bring down the fourth republic . within 15 minutes of a general ’s face fading from a screen , the 40 army units in algeria declared their allegiance .
has the israelis really wanted a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential implosion of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to assume israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? israel appears to be making the same mistake it has made in the past . if it does not , why is it so ham-fisted ? a diplomatic promotion of palestine has offered it a lifeline . it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilians does not break up their morale , turning them against their own leaders , however terrifying the regime .
while these seem to be a grab-bag of achievements , they highlight a single message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and a global recession . the un ’s growing role within the un umbrella gives it more confidence that disputes can be addressed peacefully , and even sensibly , with significant inputs from scientific expertise as embedded in the treaty on climate change . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not just proceeded quickly on the ground ; it has led to a diplomatic breakthrough just as well . the un 's growing role under the un umbrella gives it more confidence that disputes can be addressed peacefully and even sensibly , with substantial inputs from scientific expertise as in the treaty of climate . the un will play a central role in rebuilding a working government in this country , and at the same time in coordinating humanitarian aid for the afghan people .
here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new to offer in a world electoral marketplace that diverts too much from what is typically called “ neo-liberalism ” or “ washington consensus . ” indeed , brazil ’s upcoming elections later this year are like a soccer match between the big teams , where supporters of one candidate and another solely distinguish between the colors of their “ shirts ” because the strongest teams accept the “ rules of the game , ” and even “ tactics ” they are similar . in other words , there is no longer a fight between the various projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that may boost voters ’ emotions . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the coldness of the electoral landscape is closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of politics , owing to its “ financialized financiarisation , is
but the most important change must come from within the media industry itself . violence against journalists has historically been an issue that has remained squarely behind the headlines . if journalists use their platforms to inform the world about the dangers they and their colleagues face , the world will need to listen . because journalists ’ safety directly affect news organizations ’ staff , freelancers , and audiences , those organizations should be able to report on the subject . with attacks on print rising , the old approach , prideful silence , no longer makes sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieved the millennium development goal ( mdg ) – to halve the proportion of the world ’s poor to one-half of its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . but rising rates of unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat to poverty worldwide . despite their flaws , income measures are useful in gaining a better understanding of the magnitude of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . after all , extreme poverty is not the unalterable attribute of a solid group ; it is the status quo that jeopardizes billions of vulnerable people . but the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , used when measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold .
while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising public-debt levels ; loss of competitiveness and slow unit labor costs ( which lack the help of a strong euro ) ; and extremely tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and the abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending in check . indeed , there is the looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse impact of years of under-investment in human and physical capital . the outlook for 2014 is dampened as well . and the structural reforms that these economies must boost their potential growth will materialize .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , with its annual gdp being only € 23 billion . but realizing that value is a long-term proposition as well . but , for the moment , these figures must be put into the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture , something that the ongoing debt negotiations have so far failed to do . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth and the financing it needs to be built dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . more immediately , it must bring the gas needed to market in europe and elsewhere , the gas-liquefaction plant , costing around € 10 billion needs to be built , and israeli investors have already expressed interest .
as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with the discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for the country ’s woes . new democracy and pasok are doing much the same , invading the eu , “ speculators , ” and hedge funds , anyone who might divert public attention from their own responsibilities to the crisis . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . syriza is hardly alone in greece in accusing the eu of the country ’s woes .
israel ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a powerful message to america that they should not miss the lebanese train just as they do . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel ’s end to its sheba farms occupation of lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to a formidable independent military force that it has erected with iranian and syrian aid . after all , it was the miniscule qatar that brokered lebanon a domestic settlement , egypt that mediated the gaza cease-fire , and turkey that are facilitating israeli-syrian talks . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match that of the region ’s “ axis of evil ” . lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see its local clients ease the israelis ’ burden of a “ lebanese front ” before their own grievances .
finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review aimed at identifying whether the fed should begin making below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing for above-target inflation during the expansionary period . but , with clarida ’s ’s input , the fed already seems to have embraced the notion that raising inflation should be allowed to exceed 2 % immediately triggering a tightening . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s economy ’s ’s ’s ’s potential growth rate is still very low ( at around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , seems official to open the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with another wave of technological innovation , will enable somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed may well be able to stay in the pause mode for the rest of 2019 . and , though the review is still in its early stages , the fed already seems to have embraced the idea that it should have allowed inflation above 2 % , without provoking a tightening .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool off the plant ’s reactors ; the protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer outfit zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up cost ; and the costs of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . moreover , the purported “ cost savings ” of a nuclear power never include the price tag of direct and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency cleanup of untreated communities when disaster strikes – all costs to taxpayers ’ detriment . all of these hidden costs force the prices of nuclear energy higher than the price of shifting to renewable energies and improving energy efficiency . it is governments , and therefore taxpayers and bondholders , that finance the nuclear plants . at the top of this is the opportunity for health-care costs that arise from exposure to radioactivity .
as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire by giving the trump camp another opportunity to deride the “ liberal elite . ” otherwise , they would grind to a suffocating debate . the most important principle of uphold is the distinction between being heard by someone and honoring someone . but clear rules of engagement are necessary . this would run counter to what the universities stand for .
new york – like an aggrieved mate on the death row , europe has received another last-minute stay on execution . there was good news in this summit : europe ’s leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to relief banks ; and the sovereigns to rescue banks wo n’t work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give the new lender seniority over other lenders are deteriorating the position of private investors , who will simply ask for even higher interest rates . markets are celebrating , as they have been after each of europe ’s four previous “ eurocrisis ” summits , until they have come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . it will survive a little more , if any , important reason .
thousands of germans have appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty relating to the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing by eurozone governments and imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to purchase , if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided the affected countries subscribe to the european rescue fund ’s european rescue fund , the european stability mechanism ( esm ) . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling to constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it might be able to do , the court has tasked the european court of justice for its views . to date , the court has proclaimed that it fully approves of the esm ’s arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law . munich , the german constitutional court delivered its long-awaited ruling on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” scheme .
and capital-gains taxes have fallen by over 50 % since the 1980s . but other cases might require creating alternative incentives , so that money can not be used at all . for starters , some of the gains from the government ’s investment-led to tesla could have recovered through stock ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra . when investment is in upstream basic research , the spillover effects through industries and sectors is sometimes inadequate for social rewards . to build support for public investment in higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should get a more direct hit , by channeling their profits into the public-innovation fund to finance the next wave of technology .
still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . if the ecb ’s next leaders do not meet them at all , then the euro itself will be at risk . complicating matters further , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership team of their own , with the european parliament sitting on a new generation of politicians not participating in previous decades of ’s ’s compromises and reforms . complicating matters further , greece and the european council will have a new president and leadership teams of their own , and the european commission will have seated back a new generation of policymakers who have failed to engage with the last decade of ’s ’s compromises and reforms . clearly , with near-zero interest rates still lower , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is a must-point .
in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings have failed to curb effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations have retained the upper hand . we have all heard the accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . in fact , these regimes have started to wield social media to their own ends . we should recall earlier accusations that russians from the west were playing by the role of fomenting “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia . facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including its posts and paid advertisements , has reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population .
today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful for that choice . ahmadinejad has rebuffed his orders , trying to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and the parliament . today , however , he is not immune to miscalculation . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political backing to win the presidency . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei regrets permitting the volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november .
similar questions apply to india and brazil , and to this end . but it is not just the developing and emerging countries that need to rethink their countries ’ approach to the world . the us needs to do so as well . the bottom line is no one from china . and it is not just that developed and emerging countries that must rethink their approach to the world .
some people are working harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully , or simply lucky enough to be in the right place at the right moment . but on the level of individual societies , i believe that inequality does loom as a serious political-economic issue . nor should we worry about the fact that some people are wealthier than others . but i do n’t see what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely aligned with their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be tackled are those of poverty and social-insurance — from providing safety net — rather than from inequality .
not everyone at the sec is as reasonable as stein is . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies working through congressional members are pushing back hard against the fsoc and its mandate . more broadly , though , her point is that the us needs the fsoc to do its job , looking for and assessing all kinds of potential systemic risk . there is also some friction among the various regulators in the us , and no doubt we need more coordination across national borders , including europe . this needs to be done as a technical matter , not as part of the political process .
iohannis may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association in the electorate regarding the views of king michael i ( the hohenzollern kings that ruled romania wisely and with the dedication of more than 80 years . the final factor driving iohannis ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s victory was the younger generation , in which connections with the western world imbued with an eagerness to see true democratic advance in romania . when the results were announced , their euphoria was overwhelming . in bucharest ’s university square , a celebration recalled the energies of 1989 ; it was the sound of a washington-awakened electorate , aware of its earlier failings and ready for a fresh start . and , indeed , upon learning of his triumph , iohannis immediately paying attention to king michael i ( hohenzollern prince , until he renounced the title in 2011 ) .
education in the social sciences and the humanities is particularly deficient , owing to their lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control of curricula . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will not be able to produce enough highly trained talent to compete globally ’s best and brightest . as a result , the chinese graduating class of colleges and universities have learned relatively little about the outside world in fields like anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills .
japan has committed to further liberalization of its own markets under the wto framework . while the export expansion has delivered the growth of that century , import substitution , and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will cause japan to boost its productivity further . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring upon japan . such reforms will shape new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and advance consumer interests . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
the egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable response to the problems of the moslem world . i believe that the west can learn a great deal about what to do by studying policies pursued in the un just two mid-development moslem states of the world , tunisia and indonesia , because each has successfully avoided becoming the prey of islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy given its closeness to algeria ’s . both countries have combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and they have been pursuing rapid , egalitarian development . nevertheless , it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it fails to deliver the ideology compelling enough to compete for fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the faslem world .
in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) that excludes food and energy was heading down just when it was up . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was essentially unchanging , held , at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan . for an american economy that is widely assumed to be approaching the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a nasty awakening , particularly for the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get the inflation back on its 2 % target . new haven , yet another part of the negative inflation surprises go at hand .
as recently as 200 years ago , however , asia accounted for more than 60 % of global gdp . our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west should be rethought as well . he also contrasts religious tolerance , preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar in the 1590 us with the inquisition smashing heresy in europe globally at around the same time . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to the country ’s third-century bbc buddhist emperor ashoka . following the end of the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , however , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions switched back .
yet that sequence is the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets developed had those with stakes in them for better regulation to protect investors . japan had no corporate law unless the complex commercial finance had begun to develop in the late nineteenth century . so , in britain , japan , and america , something more foundational had to take place before financial markets started operating . britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , the protection of institutions later . the core protective regulatory institution for outside finance , the laws of the federal reserve , had nowhere to fall to where the 1930s , a decade after america ’s financial markets grown to finance america ’s economic ascent .
from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged a remarkable 3.8 % , the second-fastest rate in western europe , behind only ireland . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . nonetheless , by 2007 , greece had been spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , europe ’s largest such gap , more than twice that of spain and 55 % above that of ireland . in spain and ireland , the gap reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to far cheaper mortgages . insufficient spending was never an issue ; it was not even an issue .
well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent entities when issues at hand are technical and do not generate distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result from sub-optimal outcomes to all ; or when policies subject to myopia , with heavy disenfranchisement of future costs . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . it might be up to elected politicians to define the inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve that target date are left to central bank technocrats . true , the quality of democratic governance may sometimes be augmented by lower the discretion of elected representatives .
first , it is important to realize that a powerful and overly volatile currency is not simply the central bank ’s problem to correct . while the central bank bears substantial part of the responsibilities , it needs the support of other parts of the government , most notably from the us finance ministry . that means that the fiscal authorities have substantial responsibility : to target the structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for a real exchange-rate depreciation . keeping a competitive currency in check requires boosting domestic saving relative to investment or decreasing national expenditures relative to incomes . otherwise , the gains of competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation .
jolie refused to treat the mastectomy as terrifying or tragic – or as making her “ less a woman ” – in any sense . there is something about that narrative , a sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the sake of her children , with her husband remaining in the same manner deeply reassuring to women in western culture . but jolie ’s true relevance is his context : waves of women and men , in very different settings worldwide , insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , were once cloaked in shame , silence , fear , or blame . there is something of a narrative , a sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the sake of her child , with her husband staying on it , that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . jolie has been refused to treat the mastectomy as terrifying or tragic – or as forced by her “ less women . ”
it is this danger that sets both a practical and political limit to a flexible exchange rate . to prevent such crises from turning into a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate needs to be managed – and , in a sense , depends on a country ’s particular circumstances . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , with the resulting government pressure to compel austerity , thereby constraining consumer demand , causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . large net central-bank reserves may help ease that process . some depreciation can manage most deficit countries well ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if domestic currency loses too much value too quickly .
the limits of free speech are simply not legal , but they are . people tend to be fired for commercial reasons if something in their place is seen as offensive toward a large number of people . but the cancellation of barr ’s show was , of course , not the rule of law . free speech is more firmly legally protected in the american people than anywhere else in the world . entertainment companies or the mass media are sensitive to public opinion .
in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced the arab human-rights report , written on behalf of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key measure , including individual liberty and female empowerment , as well as in terms of economic and social progress . disturbing trends , such as a demographic youth “ bulge ” combined with high youth unemployment rates -- reaching nearly 40 % in some places -- highlight potentially explosive social conditions . in fact , not to mention the arab world , not to mention the arab world , africa has a muslim majority . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key steps , including individual freedom and child empowerment , as well as economic and social progress .
then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe embraced a staunch transatlantic orientation . when it came to global balance of power , however , that was more symbolic than a reflection of their true influence . when it comes to security , europe remained heavily dependent on the us . but on economic as well as technological fronts , europeans regained their national sovereignty . institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu .
for the occasion , tudor wore the yarmulke and talked about his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . he soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli premier yegzak rabin of brasov in tranov . but tudor did not stop with prolix apologies . " the occasion , tudor wore the yarmulke and spoke about his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . he announced that he had been hiring the unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli premier yegzak rabin at brasov in transylvania .
in kenya , for example , a prominent local paper reported that philip kinisu , a former ethics chairman and anti-corruption commission , had already received suspicious payments from a national youth service . but those with power know how to fight back have not pulled their punches . as a result , in many african countries , the free press is being undermined , suppressed , and even picked up . further investigations against nys have revealed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . and independent investigative journalists in africa have often exposed high-level corruption , abuses of power , and shady business deals .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more business-friendly economy . but , because the government specifies how to offload its massive share holdings in an orderly fashion , it needs to ensure that such efforts are financed with equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing market equilibrium and resilience . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not the state ) that identifies and supports unicorns . but , as a government determines how to offload its massive share holdings in an orderly fashion , it must make sure that such efforts are financed with equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing the market ’s balance and resilience . china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error ; and the lesson from its current stress test should be seen as part of that process , lest it be used to drive the next stage of economic reform .
rigorous adherence to constitutional provision in any kind of eventuality is imperative . here , the absence of a free media is particularly alarming , and does n’t bode well for free and fair elections . it is critical that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters – a point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it seeks to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate . here , the recent attack on globovision , venezuela ’s only survived an independent station , stands out in that regard . his sudden departure due to illness may create a political vacuum that could become power-hungry in one form or another , such as a military coup .
what a difference a decade makes . during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked big , lumbering central banks as monetary cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . traders did n’t win every battle , of course . his fundamental strategy was the standard here : bets against any central bank struggling to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . george soros was once again producing billions of dollars off from the bank of england in a single hour .
in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely exceeded that attained by the end of last year , with much of the increase fueled goods produced but not yet being sold at all . yet , contrary to expectations , the growth of us household consumption has so far remained lackluster , with firms failing to ramped up investment . yet there is another problem : in their homes and at work , the sense of agitation about the future misses , despite all the gee-whiz kadgetry that now envelops them . the prevailing explanation , the brutally cold winter , is wearing so slumber that everyone should be able to see through it . but there is another problem : in their homes and workhouses , the sense of agitation of the future is missing , despite all the gee-whiz kadgetry , which now envelops them .
regulatory reform is also needed to bolster support for startup companies , an area where germany is notoriously weak , reflected in the difficulty of such companies facing venture capital . while some of these funds will come from public budgets , the vast majority will need to provide private-sector support . nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more obvious than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to invest annually across network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband internet , up to international standards , will require major investments that an improved regulatory framework might help drive it .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute for international economics argues that china has effectively surpassed america in ppp terms by 2010 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership passes to china in 2014 . the international monetary fund recently projected that the size of china ’s economy would overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s ’s income by using a set of international price applied to all economies .
in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia or a blockade of the strait of hormuz could still inflict damage on america and its allies . but one should not leap to conclusions . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . america may be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less and more energy ; but oil is fungible commodity , and the american economy remains sensitive to shocks from a sudden changing in world prices . a balance of energy imports and exports merely reflects the first approximation of independence .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but that does n’t mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . the bottom may be near , perhaps towards the end of the year . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumer-spending binge was the engine of global growth . this downturn is complicated : the economic crisis combined with the financial crisis . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the powerful action that was taken to revive the global economy .
tackling the world ’s ecological and ecological challenges and improving the lot of those left behind will require public action , such as that which i oversaw in my roles at the world bank , the un , and the brics governments . in seizing the opportunities caused by globalization , companies have often neglected the developed-world workers they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . but so , too , will demand the involvement of a business leaders themselves . in my own work career , i saw firsthand that a surge fueled by entrepreneurial competition in a globalizing world may do far more to tackle poverty , hunger , and disease than a government-sponsored initiative on its own . but when that competition is n’t run responsibly , the opposite may be happening , at least in many cases .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 brexit referendum , such a move would necessitate a fresh plebiscite spin against no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his misaligned opponents to override their differences in order to avoid a no-deal brexit . yet , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being brushed out of british politics . many leavers would see this as an anti-democratic upheaval . but it would be an incendiary turn .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensuring that the full potential of sdg 14 is realized . we have funded its destruction , with no regard for the consequences . it has been treated like the free-for-all bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet . to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensuring that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . the us has already endured decades of abuse and neglect .
when the crops fail , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing debt burden ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide , as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . these groups were dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . the bjp government ’s biggest victims ’s neglect of agriculture were its country ’s small and marginal farmer , just as the country ’s landless farm workers had done . daily low-paying workers , traditionally paid in cash , lost out to the millions , simply because replacing the currency had not been printed at all . that is the past year for which official household suicides data are available , but media reports indicate that the numbers have grown since .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : the rate of extinction . for every one in the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there can be ten or perhaps even 100 other unfamiliar animal varieties , plants , or funes . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : extinction rates . for that reason , some colleagues and i have calculated a rate at which bird species become extinct in the recent past , and the rate at which they are likely to become extinct in the future . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental effects .
today , computers consume around 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of the digital power group . and , finally , perhaps most important , they enable their users to sense patterns and opportunities that would be impossible to discover through traditional means . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – as measured by the number of computations per energy unit of “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the best man-made machinery . with systems that grow in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture seems to be reaching its limits , because power consumption soars and transmission delay among components become increasingly onerous . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach us .
proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , emphasize that deposit insurance would avert the risk of runs on banks in times of crisis . to address this risk mismatch and move ahead with plans , balance sheets will need to be clean up before considering another step . munich – debates are now underway to establish a system for common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . whereas the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries is just 2 % , the most recently published international monetary fund statistics , from last april to a shows a proportion of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . while that argument is true , critics emphasize a mismatch in risk , owing to the high proportion of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries .
in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded , after publishing online reports on high-level government corruption . this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the victor takes all , the loser goes to jail , for ruthlessness . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means , rather than jail on behalf of an inconvenient opposition . it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case plays out , whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or to forces that want to exclude her from politics in perpetuity . she is in jail because of her loss of power .
undoubtedly , there is a powerful case for universal , impartial application of values . this virtuous circle continues to be perceived by the enemies of globalization as in reality a vicious one , encouraging exploitation of the poor and the vulnerable . and increased wealth in the rich countries help the poor by boosting demand for their goods . for innovation , what generates wealth and employment , despite -- or because of -- competition from poor countries . it is here that questions of the universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate .
that is why abe was america ’s first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may to rush to congratulate trump on the us in 2017 . like italy , japan was on the frontlines in the cold war . but the post-1945 democracy that america remains proud of installing following the soviet union has also been hindered by american interference . in some important respects , japan has benefited immensely from it under america ’s wing , and from a postwar constitution that was not merely pacifist but more democratic than anything the country had in the past , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . constitutionally unable to engage in military adventures , with the exception of the highly paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , like the countries of western europe , could rush to congratulate trump on his industrial power .
aside from a small number of fine story in the us business press , it ’s hard to argue that anyone reading or listening to english-speaking media coverage of the campaign may have learned anything exciting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america . nobel prize winners like edward prescott do not have much business discuss the benefits of tax cuts , without pointing out that a tax cut accompanying spending increases is not a tax cut at all ; but , rather , a tax shift to the future – and the tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economics legerdemain has been magnified by tv , print , and internet reporters . but much of the problem stemmed from a subbriefed , undereducated , discurious press corps . the economics profession bears part of this blame .
until now , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , the indispensable requirement of any successful national movement . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians , and may well understand what other palestinian leaders failed to comprehend , mired in the fact that they were in the toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . neither violence nor terrorism , nor relied upon outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the ussr , nato , the european union ) succeeded in providing statehood that a people can achieve only through their own agency , what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained with the consciousness of a majority of palestinians yet , ever since the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine into two states , a jewish and arab one has fallen out of step with the toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may just be that the palestinians are on the brink of a new chapter in their arab history , and , in israel ’s history , and all the region as well .
in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded korea ’s kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also temper china ’s geostrategic concerns about the korean peninsula . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for a us invasion into china . in response , under a fractured dynasty , china fought alongside korea against the sudanese army . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to stop japan from overdominating korea .
the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne wizardry , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) are about to soon eliminate , or modify , a large but unpredictable , abundance of human jobs . but it is a disjoinder that merits attention , because there is no solution to the problem by adapting to conventional policy responses . thus , disruptions to current patterns of work should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” ” ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the requirements of an automation-driven workmarket . at the same time , embracing new technologies is regarded as essential for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success .
developing scientific and technological capacities is less difficult than sustaining , and sustaining it will be less difficult than utilizing them . developing , sustain , exploiting local capabilities and leading the way . every nation also needs to develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists local job opportunities . so african nations need to invest in science and technological education and skills training . yet the ultimate impact of science and technology ultimately depends on all three factors .
and that is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade away . a code of conduct on the field , where we expect the players to hand their alone under a clear set of rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees , is fundamentally the same thing as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . fifa is as complex as any significant transnational private or public organization ; how it follows must reflect that code . they must be resolved head-on , with a clean sweep of its management and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations worldwide are expected to adhere to this code of conduct .
in the west , young people mostly dispensed with the home-delivered physical morning newspapers , and catch up on news whenever they chose , using tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . in the united states , the number of full-time journalists has dropped by more than 20 % since 2001 . the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often set large numbers of personnel , particularly in their overseas bureaus . even a few grand titles have either closed down or publicizing simply online . as advertising revenues have been vacuumed by facebook ’s internet giants and google , newspapers ’ profits have plunged .
during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people , a challenge almost any time soon , far less during the period of a profound economic crisis . in the new century , refugees flocked to the middle east and the horn of africa were increasingly dependent . people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after the eruption of the 1973 coup , and iran in the wake of the 1979 revolution . for decades , the swedish industrial sector had been dependent on immigrant workers . but that still proved well : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as much as the swedes who received them , enriching our societies .
transactions worth over $ 88 billion occurred last year , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 , including sofia , the nordic , and the nordic countries rank well above america in so-called “ e-intensity ” – ” ” which covers infrastructure , internet access , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced the major expansions of their european tech hubs . globally , foreign firms are rushing to take advantage of europe ’s tech talent . one-third of these companies have acquired a tech company since the beginning of 2015 . another study by the boston consulting group highlights that many small export-oriented european union member countries are namely the benelux , baltic , and nordic countries rank far above america in so-called “ e-intensity , ” which covers it , internet access , as well as companies , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities .
he rose to the summit by victorious friends and allies within the ccp . so far , public reactions have ranged from puzzlement to derision . china ’s dream is no exception . after a decade of rule by the slogan , the chinese public wants substance . this presents xi with a genuine challenge .
in may , american president mitt romney had just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low-priced us imports from china leaves romney ’s administration in a bind . china ’s government decides not to risk further strife and to announce a package of measures aimed at boosting economic growth and preventing layoff from getting exporters and intervening in currency markets in order to weaken the renminbi . against the advice of its council of economic advisers , it notifies across-the-board import duties on chinese exports . demonstrations begin in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were n’t stronger ; and why there is now so much opposition to efficient implementation of that legislation ( for example , there has currently been an enormous struggle around the “ volcker rule , ” which would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks ) . and , in that case , it does n’t even seem to reflect the lobbying power of the big finance players . why , then , would the administration continue its spigot over backwards to be the lenient toward top bankers under these conditions ? but mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter . i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption , payments made to individual , or even political , campaigns .
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many traits in syria today . in fact , much of what happened in bosnia , including the effort , in its aftermath , to realize the concepts of universal justice , have applications for the contemporary world . to be sure , some important differences exist as well . the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , much less agreement on a path forward . like bosnia , syria appears hopelessly divided among warring factions , and violence there appears to be unstoppable .
officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of a “ air-sea battle ” against any particular country . given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , a unilateral american effort to maintain overwhelming offensive superiority would only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . their approach , what it calls a “ air-sea battle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of a precision-strike weaponry . in fact , some american strategists have advocate largely a technological solution to this dilemma . for example , iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities , as well as a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives addressing its growing security vulnerability .
her advice is to seize opportunities at work , as well as to find happiness in marriage and children . or should she embrace happiness as a woman ’s daughter ? should she embrace an important role at this early stage ? mrs. watanabe is giving her daughter the talent to see how the tide turns out to be . mrs. watanabe is having an important role to do with her daughter ?
though we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing chernobyl , we will introduce western nuclear safety standards , and renew cooperation with the imf through an expanded fund facility program . a positive sign here is the recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million in order to complete the nuclear-energy stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , which will offset the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . international support for our efforts is critical here . the euroatom also helps a $ 585 million loan to fund repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear power plants .
of course , what russians had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but a revolutionary agitation . indeed , russia ’s people wanted to make the difference and spectacularly they did : their energy and cohesion set the end of communist rule . instead , political life here was downgraded to a mere formality . though there was nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between the state and society was reminiscent of the soviet period . indeed , though there was nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between the state and society was identical to that of the soviet period .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as israel ’s stability . ) like is often true in crises that become systemic , we have known the phenomena but failed to grasp their interactions , in part because policymakers and analysts are reluctant to anticipate the ruptures : the familiar is held to be stable even when troubled is known . almost everybody was astonished by the revolts , even though political and socioeconomic causal factors were well known . but some of the early lessons from international politics , and from the west , particularly europe , foreign policy , merit serious consideration .
whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt stood at cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land and fixed assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion , which means that even if asset values were written down by one-half , local governments would remain insolvent . nonetheless , because china is a net lender of last resort , lgfv debt has no global systemic implications . to resolve it , the government has just announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues among central and local governments , enabling local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . that leaves only the issue of debt servicing the official debt . when the market tightens in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects were diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to rise , and introduced new market-based challenges to reform .
but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the imperative of economic advancement become necessary , democracies now seem unlikely to vote to reinstate social conditions before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . racial and gender equality today support clear majorities in america , britain , and most european countries , and even seeming popular policies like trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % of support in opinion polls . “ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics appeared to be two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism collapsed during the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer be deflected by invoking impersonal economic laws . pre-crisis domination enabled many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go almost unchallenged .
whereas the pessimists will undoubtedly find validation of further chinese growth disappointments to come up , the optimists are able to point out that 5 % annual gdp growth in china is nominally equal to germany ’s 15-20 % growth . it is no less predictable than when china starts rising at an even faster pace than china ’s , simply because its labor force still has a lot of rising left to do . at this stage in china , faster growth would indeed be quite extraordinary . the real question is whether india can implement robust , productivity-enhancing reforms . as the us predicted nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain per capita growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its labor-force growth will peaked .
moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics was shaped from the bottom up with experiences in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american politics was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . by choosing his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to keep robert gates as assistant secretary of defense , he showed openness to powerful subordinates . equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary the mix of such capabilities in various situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” obama has continued to demonstrate these management skills in his almost flawless transition . during his campaign , obama showed these skills in his quiet responses to crises , his forward-looking vision , and his super-b organizational capacity .
domestically , it thwarted the country ’s stature and left its reputation smeared . domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in dawning , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . with pakistan ’s economy mired in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . ” with pakistan ’s economy mired in proliferation , popularization , and growing relative power … of religious groups representing intolerant , militant , and gender-based ’s interpretation of islam .
deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” indeed ) will make life easier for new businesses by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and reduced the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which have also been large sources of bribery ) . in addition , gref 's program is emblematic of the president 's style : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by the government , and under his pressure -- matches the modernization from below , depending on the private initiative . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the agenda : to reinforce and protect property rights , to promote deregulation and stimulate competition . enhancing competition will mean putting emphasis on antitrust policy and curbing state subsidies . gref 's program , too , is emblematic of a president 's style : modernization from above -- ie , that it was initiated by the government , and under his pressure -- matches modernization from below that based on a private initiative .
the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract effort to forge an ever-closer union . indeed , in today ’s disagreements , it is the roots of a stronger union . the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is more threatening , divided , and disorienting . a pattern begins with a sense of mind : a new crisis ; a new meeting in brussels ; a premature response , debates , and divisions earlier ; and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a collective response , fueled by a realization that no other alternative is possible . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian endeavor ; an abstract effort to forge an ever-closer union .
in other words , would i have been following in the footsteps of a few of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advise its dictator , and were willing to pay for their services ? these scholars have been pilloried by the media in recent weeks for the supposedly cozied up to qaddafi . muammar el-qaddafi ’s deadly stance during the uprising exposed his true colors , whatever his more moderate posture in recent years . sir howard davies chose to resign as director of the lse , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) and assumed money to school from the libyan regime . there is a strong sentiment underlying the academics , as well as the institutions that collaborated with such the odious regime , often with their governments ’ encouragement , undoubtedly suffered a grave flaw in the verdict .
so , eight days prior to the vote , the u.s. sent russia warning about its voting meddling over the hotline , creating three years earlier to handle major cyberincidents of contacts with major cyber incidents , linking the two countries ' nuclear risk reduction centers . but some of the critics say that the russians have already reached their main goals . in 2016 , obama did not want to take the steps that might themselves disrupt this election . because russian hacking activity seemed to be slowing or stopped , the obama administration cited warnings as a successful exercise in deterrence . in 2016 , obama was countering difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of response to cyber actions or cross-sector responses like sanctions .
in an increasingly protracted crisis , like syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal over 30 years on concessional lending from the world bank . if this initiative were established before the ecuador earthquake , it could offer 12 months of emergency aid , helping the country until it can reinstate education on the basis of its national plan . the fund will therefore fill the gap in coordination and delivery of services by strengthening the system at its weakest stages , providing a bridge to longer-term development . an injection of funding , supporting a common strategy , developed in partnership with governments , would enable urgent learning delivery at emergency times . as soon as it is established , aid would be made accessible to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans for providing education to conflict-affected children ’s children , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos .
no israeli leader since has shown anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and ability to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert come close , but not nearly enough . they would share jerusalem as the capital , finding mutually acceptable solutions to the enormously sensitive issue of palestinian refugees ’ return . for all its profoundly emotional attachment to israel ’s idea of embracing all of historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with a viable state , secure borders was by adopting a palestinian state alongside , equally secure and viable . rabin ’s murder has been a disaster from which the peace process has never recovered .
but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . as one example , they regard the phenomenon as what schneider and sagan mean . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or any beer ) and to turn it upside down , water will come out in unappealing glugs . some might think that this might be true only if the “ logical end of evolution ” and intelligent life was to be just the bomb that pulverized earth . instead , they are making the distinction between matter and energy , saying that matter organized in structures disseminating power gradients faster than randomly distributed matter .
we lost the organizing principle , and no other idea was replaced by it . argentina became a country without direction , too . we lost the organizing principle , and no other idea replaced it . argentina ’s notion as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , a name given to those who vanished in the dirty war of the 1970 ’s . we no longer have a guide , an afterthought of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are , and whom we can become . it was not easy to live without knowing who we are and became even more difficult to live this way as we were watching our world late .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s ’s ’s “ augmented interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite the us senate report asserts , the techniques that they employ yielded little of intelligence . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan , spoken language , and understood the workings of patronage and power there . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it all the more obvious that many individuals who have been detained and tortured have not been threatening america ’s ’s ’s security – at least not until us actions have made them such a reality . a week later , the us senate report finds that i was reading anand gayoal ’s new book no good men among the living , which tells contemporary afghanistan to be a story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , the taliban commander , and kabul-born housewife who had spent years in purdah in the taliban region . over and over again , the same story plays out : the local power-broker is willing , even keen , to support a new us-backed government , simply to be denounced as the taliban member by an afghan fellow afghan member , typically for local political or personal reasons , to unwitting american troops .
beyond europe , this has been true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter has challenged a referendum in order to help arrest his sinking popularity . some opposition members in germany would dearly only a year before arnold schwarzenegger needs to give californian voters massive -- if guilty -- pleasure . electoral successes seem to be fades fast in france . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to be doing the same to chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they did not ( yet ! ) find a film star to replace him . several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after he was elected .
at the same time , the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-allocation disruptions and its cost of doing business . and at the same time , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” dividend – together with the internet plus ” initiative – signaled a determination to move the country ’s ’s manufacturing base into the global age . china can still tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” ” but at considerable cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth will require it to continue moving past the global value chain , by pursuing deeper economic reform and remaining focused on new technologies . and , in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” dividend – along with the internet plus ” initiative – signaled a determination to move the country ’s manufacturing base onto the internet age .
and it wo n’t help fight the world ’s largest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is caused mostly by open-ended forest fires fueled by timber , cardboard , and dung , claiming perhaps 3.8 million lives annually . little wonder : 170kwh are not what most of us would consider a true approach to electricity . the iea expects that each of the 195 million people with off-grid solar alone will get just 170kwh a year ; or about half of what one us flat tv uses within a year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test publishing to the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor found that , while receiving slightly more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they did n’t increase savings or spend , they did n’t work more or start more businesses , and their children did n’t study more . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs .
from 1990 to 2010 , deaths and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries increased 300 % more rapidly than those associated with falling infectious diseases . the majority of these countries ’ health systems are failing to build chronic or preventive care and a lack of basic consumer protections . inhabitants of densely packed urban districts in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution and , much less likely , access to adequate nutrition . indeed , from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in the developing world . some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates .
when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game , resorting to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in . rather , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . but if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed . in the us , two drivers ’ race toward a cliff ( or all else ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent disaster . both european and american debates were replete with posturing and tests of will , turn politics into a player of “ chicken . ”
when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed that technology would necessarily spur democracy . likewise , in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their capacity to shift their gains to low-tax jurisdictions , continues to enable them largely to escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite staying to the g20-sponsored work-sponsored work-life erosion and profit shifting . finally , however , it became apparent that such digital platforms could easily be co-opted by authoritarian governments or by terrorists , used to disseminate fake news , influence electoral processes , and create deep divisions and confusion within societies . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening enables parents to choose ” ” ” embryos with desired characteristics . and political institutions have failed to keep pace with technological change , as well as with resulting market growth .
yet the key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has n’t changed : tax cuts such as these do not lead to faster growth , but simply to lower revenues . increases in us living standards , for example , will mean more federal revenue , not less . while trump gutted the growth of america ’s national debt , he now proposes tax cuts that add trillions of dollars to us debt in just the next ten years , not the “ one only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim will be added , owing to some growth miracle leading to more tax revenue . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting america will require , first and foremost , more federal revenues . yet federal government support research as a percentage of gdp now is comparable to what it was 60 years ago .
obama can use his state of the union message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for cutting the budget deficit to a sustainable level . that would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go ( payg ) regulations and introducing an independent commission to submit to congressional amendment-proof charges ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , like health care , there is a welter of conflicting proposals . while it will probably lack the public option many of the us favor , it still has a real accomplishment . the same middle-of-the-road approach can take , say , a second year to address one ’s still-outstanding fiscal issues .
in response , the european commission has launched an official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration quelled a civilian service ( including public radio and tv ) , packed the constitutional court with sympathizers , weakening the court ’s capacity to hit the legislation effectively . for the first time , the standard & poor ’s has downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from its – to the bbb + , and warned of perhaps even more cuts to come as it accuses the government of weakening “ “ “ “ independence and effectiveness ” of its democratically elected institutions . moreover , the standard & poor ’s had , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from its first term – to the bbb + , and warned against possibly more cuts to come as it accuses the government of weakening “ key institutions ’ autonomy and effectiveness . ” in response , poland has now emerged as europe ’s latest battleground , in a contest between two models of democracy – liberal and illiberal .
furthermore , in shiite traditions , the mahdi strategy , the shiite messiah , will be to terrorize all of his enemies upon returning to earth . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing more terrifying to khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than to the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing inside the country . so external forces do not seem to pose much of a threat to the us . the regime seems convinced that there is little likelihood of a military assault on its nuclear program . certainly , this does not believe that us sanctions might trigger a nuclear meltdown .
ever since a country could be held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with the shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts , all put down in bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . saddam ’s rule alone was the most brutal of a long succession of sunni regimes . throughout its history , modern iraq has always been arab countries ’ most repressive . it was this sunni hegemony , and not only the result of saddam ’s ba’athist regime that overthrew the united states . for their own political reasons , the brics imposed sunni arabs never more than 25 % of the population , in control of the whole country , and even imported the sunni arab hashemite prince to govern over their creation .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species , generally the case with orthologs , are expected to last the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids making up protein chains within such orthologs can vary significantly . sometimes the degree of sequence identity between the two orthologs can be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . if the structure of proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexity arrival ? this protein conservation fold across species makes the origin of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is pretty well known that the number of human genes today is deceptively small , merely one order of magnitude larger than that implied by , say , rice .
but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . georgia ’s current economic breakdown provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to promote reunification . the adzhar people view themselves as georgian , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that its georgian relations would work out any better ? similarly , georgian ’s inability to manage relations with its sole autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire much confidence . president saakashvili appears to understand the necessity of reviving georgian ’s moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability .
moreover , the scots , the welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as an safeguard against english political revanchism . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots , and 56 % of northern iranians , voted to remain . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain are focusing squarely on english national identity , while diluting those of scotland , northern ireland , and welsh , who will return to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english project . as was true of the past , imperialism aspires to unity ; but , like it , geographic breakdown tells the true story . though socioeconomic factors have played some part in the result of the brexit referendum , geographic breakdown tells the real story .
this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” in the us , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s ’s ’s ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . but promisingly – and surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of american politics , it attracted broad support and sophistication from many mainstream pundits . the paper made the case for the development of alternatives to fossil-fuel projects , ensuring that economic development does not wreak havoc , and recognizing the importance of climate-change adaptation . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” report comprehensively and persuasively argues that the american government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s ’s ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new power grid for university-innovators in private-sector hubs to create a “ “ energy revolution . ”
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ seemingly solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not as straightforward as it appears . resolving the elite ’s interests requires ingenuity . everything within their countries depends on the person and his family , rather than in office . yet , to the extent that they do , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ seeming solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is n’t as straightforward as it might seem . after all , all , all four north african rulers have , to over or above , made themselves the hub of a highly opaque power structure .
yet the decision may have the life-and-death ramifications for serbia . they brought him into power , if not in an act that conforms to precisely with his democratic norms ; backed him , even as he led them in genocidal crimes and vanquished after his defeat . many of them agree that milosevic is a war crime now seem to think that we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade and their outcry that milosevic should face trial before his own people see it . the final moral responsibility of what was done by milosevic rests with serbia . there appears to be near-universal plo consensus , and international pressure is exerted on president kostunica to comply .
palestinians were reassured by a message by us president barack obama delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not be carrying out any “ provocations ” ” ” provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed for clarity , palestinians conceded that there was no written promise to this effect . but , on israel ’s recent trip , the white house adviser dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that the israelis will not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to the white house . for starters , we move again to what henry kissinger famously called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity ” ” .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s lee kuan yew , for example ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( such as italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in their autocracies , where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to hold the party , rather than the individual , in power . the chinese model combines some of the authoritarian model of modernization with advantage – centralized power , rapid decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior capacity to implement painful but necessary reforms , with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggle . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , a large number of authoritarian non-modernizers – such as zimbabwe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s robert mugabe or , karimov .
glass-steagall ’s dilution , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , made it possible for banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading , ” thereby allowing them to use depositors ’ savings to trade on their own accounts , primarily in risky mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration needs to go further than to prohibit proprietary trading by commercial banks , and to do two more things . first , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” ” they need to shrink , in order to prevent taxpayers from having to bail out every time a crisis erupts . that way , shareholders , rather than regulators , would be playing a dominant role in making banks behave sensibly . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” they need to shrink , in order to prevent taxpayers from needing to bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
others , from turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria to south korea , would not be far behind . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move swiftly toward nuclear capability , using its plentiful petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . its collapse would trigger a nuclear-weapons race in the world ’s most unstable region . to bet that those countries that have acquired such weapons would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble . and make no mistake : that deal is beside the point .
at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany or to the west , but to all of mankind . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , and cooperative country .
of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced only around $ 10 billion . apparently , the terms offered by the putin government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . nor have the oligarchs been bailed out . how did reasonable economic policies prevail during this crisis ? apparently , the terms offered by russia ’s government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first-ever summit with us president donald trump takes office at trump ’s luxurious florida estate mar-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably target one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . the us and its allies successfully navigated europe ’s challenge to the twentieth century . but , to achieve the comparable achievement of east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt a different us policy toward north korea . despite more than two decades of unilateralism after world war i , north korea ’s ’s nuclear weapons program pushes the world toward a strategic watershed much like that faced by the west 60 years ago when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . when america and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had an opportunity to eliminate the other from attack .
theories of the “ red toryism ” ” ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for a european right to find its “ new view ” through a selective appeals of religion – and to wait and see whether it works like an electoral strategy that they should remember , even though , that starts a kulturkampf plays with fire : perhaps a instrumentalize religious passions might ring at a moment ; but such passions are n’t likely to be wrested from above . that is not an absurd idea , either . there is a long , distinguished tradition in which we might think from that perspective . but to take those traditions seriously would require a much larger transformations from which to take capitalism , than even an avowed christian democrats , are ready to present themselves , including the much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms to which involving managerial workers .
but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . fiscal sustainability demands an eventual rise in the consumption tax ; and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors start doubting its willpower . postponing a second consumption-tax hike looks like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . demand policies on its own will not alone prevent two more lost decades , much less assuring two golden ones . the problem lies in both the timing and the tactics that it entails .
usually supine congressional republicans panicked , telling trump and his team that his policy of tearing families apart could have damaged their chances in november ’s midterm elections . and they have been willing to overlook the growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to a pork-barrel star and others for silencing ) , in exchange for the policy influence and appointments of social conservatives to the supreme court and throughout the federal judiciary . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ” unusually for her , former first lady laura bush has spoken up against the politics of taking children out of their mothers . in reality , separating his families ’ policies was threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical adherents .
an ever-larger eu including ukraine would create a political-military unit with an enormous population , furthering the union ’s aspirations to be a global power . but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from its eventual eu membership , russia ’s imperial ambitions will stimulate russia ’s imperial ambitions . that , in turn , reduces russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full democracy , because it can govern an empire only as a militarized state . it is the mark of a good club that people clamor for to become members .
as in post-world war ii west germany , much of today ’s current prosperity in cyprus is the result of a surge in the economy it receives from refugee absorption . companies were encouraged by the government ’s subsidies and loan funds . schools and training centers were established , as well as by governments . within a few years , refugees have been absorbed into the islamic economy and society in the southern , the greek cypriot sector of israel . anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of israel nowadays will not find refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists are unaware of the reality that more than one-third of the greek cypriots encounter are refugees or offspring of refugees .
across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer , because they are not kept up with equal rules as everyone else . it is not hard to see why this is so . in nigeria , astonishing economic growth averaging 7 % per year since 2000 may well have reduced the poverty rate in the country 's southwest ; but in the northeastern us ( where the extremist group boko haram seems most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels popular revolt against globalization and democracy . similar trends point from china to egypt .
indeed , not only has it revived a cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced in airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . russia ’s officers , he reported , directly command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of an important transportation center of debaltseve in february . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . as its economic and geopolitical clout has sunk , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . after all , russia is the one country with sufficient missile and nuclear warheads to destroy america .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf put it , it is “ better to err with hope than correct with despair . ” authoritarians and populists have not yet triumphed , and in many places , the democrats are fighting back . or , to put it less optimistically , that democracy and autocracy still share a similar chances of being decaying . contrary to what many democratic cassandras now think , the worst is not inevitable . for now , it remains uncertain , which model will prevail .
there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . but , using talmudic ’ rationale , one also can show that there are mechanisms – and should be – that use the pressure on parties to secure superior voluntary outcomes . the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to embrace a treaty “ voluntarily . ” one might dismiss this dispute as mere rhetoric . one argues that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe initiated in 2012 has come under rising scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved on a massive scale : about 1.5 million new jobs were created , and the unemployment rate fell to just above 3 % . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it . moreover , corporate profits have soared , with tax revenues exceeding ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . but japan ’s current travails , which generated a concomitant decline in japan ’s stock-market trading , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , from 24 % last year , against major currencies .
milan – the worst of europe ’s financial/economic crisis appears to have been over . growth in the united states and parts of europe has returned . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears to have appear to have been sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies intended to sterilize massive capital inflows . private-sector deleveraging has proceeded relatively well into 2010 . private-sector deleveraging has proceeded , but has been challenged by rising public-sector deficits and debts .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to hold nuclear weapons and deny them access to others ? if nobody had that bomb today , it might well have been , if not invented . suppose that were 1939 , the states were debating whether the american ought to invent the bomb . but history depends upon the paths taken now . they might have argued that all should get it or neither .
china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . and that is good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . household consumption has started to pick up , even as the pace of investment has plummeted and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s state-owned enterprises blue origin book the commercial sector by fung commercial intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences maps change . hong kong , too , is good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy .
amphetamines accelerate the way that the body is working : users ’ experience has increased trust , sociability , and energy . but what goes up must come down , at least not at all . the global marketplace for these stimulants is estimated at up to $ 65 billion . part of the attractions of these synthetic drugs are that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need for shooting up , snort , or smog ) . this buzz is seen as innocuous : “ pills do n’t kill or disseminate hiv/aids , ” it ’s said .
sadly , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have not yet received the attention they require . trying to predict what has to be known about the environmental consequences of wars has been documented ? studies of the balkan wars and much of the wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s have been launched through international organizations such as the united nations environment programme ( unep ) . what , then , have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? first , the consequences depend on a form of war .
paris – whoever wins 9/11 ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . joining great britain with them in the march three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . britain has been largely excluded from any leadership role in europe . are there the alternatives to europe ’s franco-german leadership right now ? no matter their economic conditions or confidence , or a lack of it , france and germany are more than ever jointly responsible for the future , if not its very survival , of the european project .
upon returning to office earlier this spring as prime minister , singh brought to government an knowledgeable and internationally renowned team , including finance minister christopher stambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads a planning commission , the key body assessment of india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . when the former government lost the vote of that past may , and singh ’s government entered into office , worries that singh would be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners who are demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the prize for their participation in the new ruling coalition . the paper is a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine an all-or-break approach to market reforms , with the urgently needed attention to poverty . in short , budgets are the model for all developing countries . chidambaram ’s 2012005 budget puts those fears ahead .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp has risen by 52 % in ukraine , and by 46 % in russia . that ’s history now : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . furthermore , the discontent generated by such frustration may help explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russian ’ discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea , and the support of the kurdish separatists . and such fears may have serious consequences . for starters , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia might ultimately be behind the recent war there .
the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counter-acting them must be supranational as well , too . fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . but this is impossible without a clear-cut european identity , and thus a shared interest that it must assert and defend . fourth , the eu ’s aspiration to a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . how can we narrow current disparities in development and material welfare within europe ?
barcelona – after world war i in which millions of european civilians became refugees , forced out of their homelands through enemy occupation or deportation , the international regime has been evolved to coordinate effective responses and ease the misery of those uprooted by conflict . yet this has not risen to the occasion , with many of its reactions failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people struggled to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result , exceeding twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 . a century later , another refugee crisis is underway , and this time is europe , which has the power to provide a safe haven to the desperately poor .
america ’s sanctions against russia following the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop , and imposed similar measures by the un security council , russia ’s largest trading partner . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary at best . without eu involvement , american sanctions would have been far less effective . just over a year after an iran deal struck down , it is already hard to imagine that if china or russia were to back further joint action against iran , even though the agreement had begun to unravel . for example , american sanctions eventually brought iran into the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition ultimately backed by the un security council , isolated iran financially .
india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces three : it now has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa ; and afghanistan . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion ; with the oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil ; over the next two years , indian diplomatic mission will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso , as well as in burkina faso . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner in africa . a study by the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry has identified five major industries that can act as “ growth engines ” to boost indo-africa business : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and education .
that paradigm should extend to the geneva negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a bigger role . of course , involving regional powers could complicate negotiations further . ex-israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for talks between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , iran , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . the goal , therefore , must be for clarity and equilibrium . only with a balanced negotiating process guided by regional and global actors can a stable middle east balance be achieved .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . one may involve that something is unlimited , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may mean that something like a person or an institution is transparent , as opposed to secretive . and policymakers have long had to strike the right balance between what has become the abstraction of openness and concrete action to curb the worst effects of change . the first meaning is often applied to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not fit into vulnerability ) , which has always fueled structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment . as a practical matter , structural change can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive .
so the fed felt compelled to do more in the same way that it had led to its host of unintended consequences and collateral risks , which i discussed in some detail at my book the single game in town . the fed had hoped that it would draw on some segments of the population ( asset holders ) who felt richer , enticing them to spend more and stimulate companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” have proved quite feeble . faced with this unhappy reality , the fed has tried to stimulate growth through indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity through multiple channels , it has raised financial-asset prices well above what the economy warranted .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of the abnormal brain activations . as a result , certain sets of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , might start to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly decides to play its own music , disregarding everyone else . the first relies on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients are suffering because of reduced brain connectivity . we pursue three intertwined ideas .
i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and loss of biodiversity . but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal the successor deal to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , efficient , and fair , offer of rich countries a way to cut their greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change . i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica and in the andes . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including the portions of trinidad and tobago , could be at risk if sea level rises .
these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china evolved into a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and nurturing political leaders , who include a decade of training and a collection battery for officials on a variety of phases of their careers . at the same time , however , problems such as corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have made matters even worse . since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experiences . whereas singapore ’s political system could not readily transfer a vast country like china ’s , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy .
at the same time , washington does n’t even want to hear any talk about conferring on europe , as france demands , command an allied fleet in the mediterranean . relations between the two allied allies have entered one of those periods of tension that has flared many times since world war ii ’s close . today , that seems to be nothing short of a franco-american goodwill . the united states vetoed reelection , advocated by france , un secretary general boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of the general secretary in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of this spat was rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to diminish as much as possible to the un powers , to whom trump contemptuously referred to as “ the thingamajig ” and that america owes more than a billion dollars in past due contributions to the un .
moreover , increased openness to trade comes with lower rates of infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in the developing world . over time , free trade gives workers the skills to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , implying that millions more people are lifted out of poverty . a 2015 white house report finds , for example , that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the gender wage gap , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage differentials based on race and immigration ’s status . freer trade encourages workers to shift to more energy-efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased investment in infrastructure , and a more dynamic economy .
today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade with the us . as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s remarkable economic growth and development over the last few decades has dented hong kong ’s leading position as the center for finance , logistics , and trade . but hong kong ’s ’s ’s many advantages now seem to be in jeopardy , largely owing to its own insecurities . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade most prosperous , and its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s . it far surpassed shanghai – the mainland , china , the most prosperous city , japan , per capita income , and shipping volume .
finally , remaining within the eu customs union would make it possible to avoid reestablishing the hard border between the uk and the post-brexit republic . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable to the eu . while may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , may has offered only vague suggestions relating to how may actually is likely to materialize . brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk leave its customs union or keep the uk in , by giving the political commitment to assume british interests .
but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , had little over five legs tall . the traits-centered approach has not vanished from leadership studies , but was actually broadened and made more flexible . various studies show that tall actors are often favored , and that companies like napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping had little more than five legs tall . the traits-centered approach has not vanished from leadership studies until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse today . a tall , more handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like a leader ” in charge .
in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of an englishman in london by exploiting the telephone to order goods from around the world to his home later in life . today , however , globalization differs , because it is becoming faster and thicker . witness the migration of peoples and religions or commerce along the ancient silk route that connected medieval europe and asia . globalization , which can be defined by inter-continental distances , is just as old as human history as it is . today , however , globalization differs because it is becoming faster and thicker .
to be sure , one might object that post-crisis regulatory reform eventually will resolve the problem of periodic systemic risks , reversing the return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this happening , either . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient in the face of regulatory efforts . for example , a endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payment decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a straightforward weighted average of past returns , or end-of-asset values ( the conventional practice now ) . when it comes to regulatory arbitrage , financial innovation moves forward alongside regulatory arbitrage .
either the technology will depend on the national electricity grid , which uses low-emissions forms of power generation like wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants to capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing alongside private investment . the result is a massive budget deficit that expands to gargantuan proportions within the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures . third , the american recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government ’s ’s own fiscal back on track . george w. bush ’s vision of economic policy was to slash taxes three times , while boost expenditures on war .
second , observers must be accorded unconstrained access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all the technologies in which they participate . third , observers must confront no constraints when they meet with any authorities and political actors . according to the 2005 declaration of principles of international election observation , credible monitoring requires that five criteria be met . first , observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise , in their relationships with the host country . fourth , observers must not face any pressure or threat of retaliation by any one government .
more important , they should be affordable . this example is relevant to the politics of public services that dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ( and cutting them back ) and taxes ( and reducing them ) . as the criteria list goes up longer , it becomes apparent that the most readily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , not necessarily the most substantial . they should run out of steam not only , but also , quite reasonably , comfortable . looking ahead , they should be safe .
we saw helicopters attempt air drops ; landing is impossible in most places . but people told us that they often miss and supplying land up thousands of legs or below in deep forests . distributing is haphazard and uncoordinated , it has been done with little thought . hustlers thrive , the frail watch passively . we have saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothing ; landing is impossible in most places .
the information-technology revolution brought us computers , smartphone phones , gps , and much more , in order to build a number of industries and government roadmaps . in both cases , the scientists and engineers delivered during this period , in most circumstances . for example , to implement the manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the american government set a remarkable technological aim , setting a bold timetable , and committing the financial resources needed to get that work done . the example of atomic bomb might seem like an uncomfortable one , yet it raises an important question : if we ask that governments and researchers cooperate in war technologies , should n’t we do at least the same time to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” the ” ” ” ” in which bold goals are being established , milestones are being identified , and timelines are becoming far more common than many realize .
but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which stands only to gain from alliances with a world economic and political leader . at the same time , russia will reap the benefits of active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members . but a strategic alliance with the eu within its foreign and security policies remains unrealistic and ineffective . of course , good relations with europe offer a priority to russia , particularly its economic connections , human connection , and social interactions . europeans will most likely continue to be weaker , rather than stronger .
and with the rise of new illnesses like zika and the resurgence of old foes like the bubonic plague , there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthening health-care delivery in low – and in middle-income countries . moreover , globalization has compounded the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a deadly outbreak like the 1918-1920 sars that killed more than 50 million people today would have been even more devastating . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic illnesses like cancer and diabetes , which impose a massive burden on their economies .
the advantage of income-tax increases is that they could be based not only on current income , but on some income average over the years , and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes , without penalizing those who save more in order to accumulate more wealth . furthermore , a long-term plan legislated by one or several countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occur , might help to promote an international dialogue on the appropriate future policy toward inequality . that would create space for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’ ability to evade taxation by changing how it acts . piketty ’s book gives an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . and , if there are substantive taxes to be respected , re-juring them now to take effect only in the future , and only if inequality becomes much worse , would preempt a perception that the rules changed after the game ended .
my first stint in a chinese jail was tied to work that i began in the early 2000s printing money and distributing tibetan-language books . many spent years in prison for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out as well . i regarded these texts as potentially important readings in tibetan politics , culture , and religion . chinese authorities nonetheless viewed them as a challenge to their rule . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began seeking new ways to record my people ’s history .
poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the supreme court ’s retirement age , effectively forcing out all judges over the age of 65 , and allowing the pis to pack the court with its own tame passions . that means that judges can not be taken away by legislation , at least not constitutionally . the polish constitution grants polish president andrzej duda a replacement to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s injustices , including the chief justice of the supreme court , in 2018 alone . yet a new law enables polish president andrzej duda to replace three-fifths of the supreme court ’s injustices , including the chief justice himself , in 2018 alone . that means that judges can not be stripped of legislation , at least not constitutionally .
recent evidence : mauricio funes , the standard-bearer of the fmln – until not long ago the marxist guerilla movement – has just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . back in its radical days , ken livingstone , london ’s former mayor , famously quipped that , if the voting changes were made , they would abolish it . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , london ’s former mayor , famously quipped that if the votes were changing anything , they would abolish it . this is remarkable in a country that has long been discredited by anyone recalled , by hook or deceit , from a reactionary oligarchy . it turns out that in latin america , elections truly do shake things up .
the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with a reality of vulnerability to deception . the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t ] here is a body of great importance but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of universal rules : knowledge of particular circumstances and the place . ” that is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new companies requires a regulatory framework that favors the genuinely enlightened and honest . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique information about which beneficial use might be made , but that use can be made only if decisions based on it , or are made with his or her active collaboration . “ [ t ] he here is beyond question the body of very important but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of general rules : knowledge of particular circumstances and the place . ”
“ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because – and this may sound bizarre at first – it all about climate change . in reality , everyone is gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” and what those participating in the negotiations are calling “ an even bigger slog . ” even if some sort of communiqué does paved the way for paved of circumstances in december – and countries with elections coming up , like the united kingdom , will press for one , it is hard to believe that it will contain enough detail or reflect the proper level of commitment to have the impact so desperately needed . perhaps the only people who are not suddenly depressed are those being immersed in the negotiations . with over 1,000 points still to be struck , all the policymakers i ’ve spoken to recently say that they can not see how a meaningful agreement can reach december in copenhagen .
sales of electric cars have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 was registered in 2016 ; almost half in china . more people are arriving at the same end , and those of us who have championing evs as one of the solution to the impact of climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . that is why tackling the consumption bias must be a top priority over the coming years . still , it ’s the human nature to resist change , with many prospective buyers remaining hesitant . several changes are needed to ensure that ev growth continues .
a phased marginalization by the wto would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as adjudicator of trade disputes . at the same time , the wto ’s success in adjudication system amounts to a reflection of its widespread acceptance . focused on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system , rather than foster it . that constitutes a notable advance in global governance , after all . even when wto rulings have had severe adverse effects on a trading partner , they have generally been accepted .
all of this has accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece during the last 30 years , and are thus responsible for channeling it toward ruin . it is as if they can not see how reform can help to restart an economy with deep structural problems . that will allow the government to move forward on the second phase : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and put the economy back on track to grow . now that the greek government has delivered on its side of the bailout deal , it is high time that its european and international counterparts have concluded the first revision of the scheme . the energy market , most important , has delivered the market for natural-gas combustion – and the tourist rentals market has been liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment license has been streamlined .
new york – at the start of november , us president donald trump renounced official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby confirming the very decision that he announced in march 2017 . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . madrid , meanwhile , will become the only country in the world that has not been party to the pact . the notification came as soon as the deal allowed , with the withdrawal becoming effective next day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states will become the only country in the world that has no party to the pact .
far from anemic , the current gdp share of after-tax profits is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . in fact , commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax gains from current production , adjusted for inventory , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . for starters , it is a veritable stretch to bemoan the state of corporate earnings in the us . trends in us corporate tax , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . while that is down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on earnings margins , it barely attests to a chronic earnings problem .
in england , prescriptions of the anti-depressants now match valium at its peak in 1979 . the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled brains has always ended up very badly , right back into opiates and cocaine periods , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all have proved to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial have practitioners admit that this was so . the past decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it is now the anti-depressants global marks with household biases . it now seems clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs they were being touted as being .
the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy into a less exposed external position with a large ( 50 % , at least ) depreciation . for her part , most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency 's collapse . in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of 20 % , the same is expected . of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor , and the proper response here is to get the large tax on wages to ensure that money wages can rise without a offsetting decline in competitiveness . in the budget this pays for the favorable effect of the devaluation of government oil revenues .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face severe water-related challenges , from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies , with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and some 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire in 2015 , addressing such issues should be a top priority . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies increasingly unpredictable , with annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion , more than double the total of official development assistance ( oda ) . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion in 2015 , addressing such issues should be a top priority .
but mayors also become the most knowledgeable about communication linkages within their communities , and thus are the most able to organize effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines in implementing urban politics . when these policies fail , citizens hold mayors to blame . but all public actors , not just police , must respond to urban problems . the events in france also highlight the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies to address discrimination , and to foster social equality .
replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up . the welfare state , too , is being undermined . in europe , however , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . in the us , too , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . the american example , the world ’s only full-employment economy , demonstrates that it can .
zurich – repeatedly over the last few years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . roughly 16 % of global energy needs ( up from about 25 % in the highly industrialized nations ) now meet electric power . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear-power plants with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) , had been connected to various national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) , more than in early 2006 . yet that renaissance never appears to be borne in place . indeed , of the world ’s 200 countries , just 30 use nuclear power .
denver – the united states constitution , which turned 225 years old last summer , is an impressive document : the provisions of the texas text written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . us president barack obama ’s administration will be reminded of the consequences of that in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills the senior positions at his second-term administration . in many cases , that process will not be complete . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” including the nomination by senior officials . perhaps nobody , 225 years ago , had any notion that the number of officials deemed to require senate confirmation would end up far above 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete .
as a recent study by bruegel shows , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but that sense of solidarity has been consistently lacking in the eu ’s energy-policy discourse . a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same question of european solidarity . in response , for example , to an embargo affecting particular countries , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own production , pay more for imports , or cut their consumption a little . but doing so would require eu member states to regard the security of supplies as a matter of shared concern , not an issue that each country must address on its own .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . nobody is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian facility at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives . the justice department under president donald trump seems set to continue that tradition .
hypothetically , switching off the lights for one would cut emissions from coal-fired power plants worldwide . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators found , a small decline in electricity use does n’t translate into the less power that they pump into the grid , and therefore do n’t reduce emissions . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will entail cutting carbon emissions during their hour , but offsetting a surge from coal-fired power plants or gas stations to renew electricity supplies once again . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a tiny decline in electricity use does n’t translate into the less power that they emit into the grid , and therefore wo n’t cut emissions . but , even if everyone in the whole world cuts all of the residential lighting , and this entirely translated into reduced co2 emissions , it would be the equivalent of china to emit less than four minutes .
after the organization ’s 2013 election – in which kremlin-backed membership candidates failed to perform well – the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . the institute ’s work appears to be at the center of devices that read made-in-the-sky activity . following the organization ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 2013 election , in which the kremlin-backed membership candidates failed to perform well , the us government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium , on ran elections . but it also apparently overruled all sorts of construction projects on a vast plot of ground , adjacent to the federal security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) , a kgb ’s ’s ’s successor organization , and the federal guard service . it was then decided that to ensure “ fairness , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ”
more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence ; in the service of researching stories and correcting claims . this reinforces the incentive to engage in courageous forms of speculation , however baseless , as has happened in shanghai ’s case . so , instead of providing context to practice , depth , and analysis , newspapers oscillate headlines that spur prurience or outrage . the result has been unsettling , to put it mildly . the airing of opinions is the cheapest way of filling one ’s hour ; ranting anchors scores supreme trps .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided on how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth forecasts closer to 4 % , and some are even inclined to see a possible “ double-dip ” recession . this is an interesting debate , but it misses the bigger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries were quick to place some of the most generous bailouts on world output . those focused on emerging markets seem to highlight accelerating growth , with some forecasting that projecting a 5 % rise in world output .
consider this : france has europe ’s highest birth rate ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france that elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , and that now seems poised to give its political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . yet , despite this , the eurobarometer polls repeatedly demonstrate that the french are all europeans ’ most pessimistic when it comes to their country ’s future . to be sure , that rate alone is not sufficient to sustain france ’s current population , but is far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equals that of the us . how , then , can people who are so negative about their common future as a nation go about confidently building its private futures within their families ?
new york – a reception in the united states and in other advanced economies by thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety over rising inequality . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity has been broadly shared , with every group advancing , but with those at the bottom viewing larger percentage gains . piketty ’s book , moreover , gives another perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a historic anomaly , perhaps one wrought by the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring income and wealth at the very top .
but grocery stores and showrooms can not be converted into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain constrained until enough time has passed through to build new hotels , vacation facilities , etc . in a totally flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant surge in unemployment ) might be avoided if resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could be used quickly to generate exports . but grocery stores can not transform tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain scarce until a sufficient time has passed to build up new hotels , vacation plants , and so on . in greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some of the unemployed . in a perfectly flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant increase in unemployment ) might be avoided if resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could be used quickly to generate exports .
most observers would agree that us government debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , which would be prudent for policymakers to discuss the strategies for getting them down . but just as fiscal policy was being tightened when cyclical economic conditions appeared to call for easing its policy , so that assumes that recent political ruptures have failed to revise their fiscal orientation , reflecting a exchequer ’s autumn statement . in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to relax fiscal policy . but , just as fiscal policy was being tightened when cyclical economic conditions appeared to call for easing its policy , now appears to be easing when conditions appear to invite tightening . the output gap in the advanced economies has all but disappeared ; inflation is picking up ; and world economic growth forecasts seem to be its strongest since 2010 .
second , the 70-year period that began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion , during which one could have gotten nearly anywhere in the typical metropolitan-region in half an hour or less , is coming to an end . before widespread automobile ownership began , land prices depended on location , and proximity to the central city , or to the local railroad station , which carried the premium . now , with demand high and housing fixed – at least in the short run – prices are going up . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient could be delayed for a decade if we were willing to shift to denser residential patterns . second , the 70-year period , which started with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion , during which one could obtain almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan-region in half an hour or less , is over .
in fact , for the eurozone as a whole , the long run appears to have arrived , and the us economy remains alive and kicking in . john maynard keynes famously said that “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline , it is . with austerity , deficit reduction , once recession brought to an end , recovery could take longer to be consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance is even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are in a sustainable position . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations altogether .
a country like china , with a very high saving rate that exceeds its local investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world saving less , notably low-income africa and asia . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption in order to save and invest for the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . a famous psychological experiment found that young children who can resist the immediate temptation to consume marshmallow and to earn two marshmallows in the future were likelier to flourish as adults than those who can not afford . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are simply touting a bad habits of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future . ) second , saving and investment flows are global in nature .
my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that 2016-2030 promises to lower co2 emissions by 2100 will actually mean just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . yet these “ green energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , making them the sadly high representative of cop21 itself . this makes the deal seem like a costliest part of history , as we do . the agreement reached in paris includes a promise that , if enacted between now and the 2030 target date , will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion per year , and perhaps double as much if politicians make inefficient policy choices . even if the eu ’s promised emissions cuts continue throughout this century , the paris agreement would cut global temperatures by just 0.17 ° c.
russia , seeing its gross domestic product fall 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to maintain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenue . an added fear is that both for russia and asia , the russian government early this year has been buying two modern global destroyers along with anti-ship missiles from russia . in fact , intervention by two american aircraft carrier groups in the taiwan straits straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese people ’s flight to stop intimidating taiwan with missile tests . shut down on transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; in other words , “ encircled ” by the us alliance of “ redefined ” the japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; in china , is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might ; and fast . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , china early this year started purchasing two modern destroyers , along with anti-ship missiles from russia .
both obama and romney run the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it caved in on china . that might take all of us down to the brink of a slippery slope . but there is nothing unusual about the pressures that would likely continue to squeezing american families long after november 6 . after all , china bashers typically change their tune after the us presidential elections next may . but there is nothing typical about the pressures that are likely to continue to squeezing american families long after november 6 . left unanswered , however , is what really comes next .
today , the great task is to calm the fears that our traditions are being undermined ; to reach out to people arriving into our lands of other states ; to find ways of re-creating our political ethicethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , nondiscrimination , and democracy . but growing individualism focus on one of our own aspirations and economic prosperity , in a number of countries , poses a stubborn barrier to realizing that vision . if we succeed , we may be able to generate the sense that we belong together , though our motivations for beliefs may be very different . they are the people who , in some ways , have lacked the full citizenship that demanded it , and who have redefined the political order by obtaining it . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people , horrifyingly evident in the american health-care debate nowadays , undermines the very foundation of what a modern democratic society is .
the halappanavar case thus reverses the western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves of superstition and religious extremism . protests in iran have mounted prime minister enda kenny on site with activists there , as well as those elsewhere in india , who argue that the halappanavar died because of a theocratic approach to health care . but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so that the process got out of touch . irish abortion-rights activists point out that , legally , the fetus ’s life does not take precedence over schoolchildren ’ life in their country , but it does take precedence over the mother ’s health , a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . halappanavar , however , died from september ticemia , whom her family was certain to develop if the termination was played out .
one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election that will provide him the political capital to reach out to park a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militarist past , south korea will agree on the departure of historical grievances from official policy . that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , despite south korea ’s ’s natural regional partner , a democratic japan . but , in some cases , historical legacies can gain excessive influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational political choices . all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical realities and myth . japan and south korea can not change the former .
but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement on expectations , rather than a sign of a lasting recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is likely to be enormous . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is gradually climbing back to its long-term average of ¥ 16 . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs on financial-assertion in this crisis will again be $ 475 trillion for the united states , japan , the us , europe , and the united kingdom , of which the american itself will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . bank stocks are particularly rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least partly of their government-provided capital . munich , as is america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s various saving plans , stock markets have been recovering somewhat .
whatever remains for public investment is certain to be wasted , because projects usually pass cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously delivered through mother nature . thirty years after the national revolutions of 1952 bolivia ’s per capita incomes remained essentially the same , with a poverty steady at over 50 % of the population . a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it demands strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of these can currently be found in bolivia , which means that government-concentrated money will surely be reallocated by patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off by corruption , and again by the social pressures of all kinds . conceived , perhaps with the best of intentions , morales ’s model vels hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; yet it preserves the path for frustrated hopes ­ , too , nothing new in bolivia .
though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslims ’ lives , their actions have fueled growing mistrust in french society . making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis raises new worries about the violent extremists who are returning from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks on rudimentary tools , from cars and delivery trucks through knives . still , a majority of french citizens remain deeply troubled by the menace of terrorism not only from abroad , but from the people living in france , often with french citizenship at home . and similar worries about homegrown extremism can be observed in many other european countries .
while 8 of the top ten hosting countries , including a few low – and middle-income countries , shouldered a significant cost , despite a strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems or assign them to safe facilities . the two landmark global compacts on migration and the refugees adopted by un member states last december highlight the way to tackle this challenge . as it stands , the world ’s annual funding gap for education amounts to nearly $ 40 billion . achieving the sdgs will require far more funding than is currently on offer . that entrenches the costs of social integration .
the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . but the argument should not be about whether aid can be provided , no one can question the many achievements that aid has brought , or its importance in providing a safety net for those who are otherwise left behind . discussions over the failure of international aid to produce development , coupled with the current financial crisis , have added weight to argument against development assistance . africans themselves must tackle these issues , but our international partners have an important role to play .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction of its decision-making has created between the uk and the united states . in fact , it is the us that is advocating a mistaken approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an occasion for the british press to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction of the ruling came from the uk and the united states . ” the white house issued its statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for high standards . ” the white house issued its statement urging the uk government to “ use its voice to pressure the adoption of high standards . ”
french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and vast investments in public infrastructure , so what more can socialists possibly ask ? in terms of remedies , socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions now being proposed by the right . indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . since george w. bush displayed the path toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . the socialists are blaming mendacious financiers , but who do n’t ?
core countries , led by germany , have mistrust the over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform should their financing conditions be relaxed . they are also demanding faster implementation of the necessary changes to eurozone economic governance in order to produce a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a protracted recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes reaching either fiscal or reform targets harder ; if not impossible . moreover , they oppose key changes in europe ’s economic governance . the burden of adjustment can not fall entirely on deficit countries ; unless , that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” itself .
moreover , turkey does not seem to care well about any future peace process as it does . when historians look back on the conflict in syria , they will continue to praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance russians whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . at the same time , this does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance russians whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east .
one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 had ever before . there is , however , a downside to the emergence of the g-20 : large numbers of attendees can make it hard to reach agreements and get things done . after all , the uk is simply smart when it promotes its own interests by working with china . space at the table for china could have been earned had european countries signaling their commitment to a common currency , agreed to surrender its individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire currency union . a new g-7 needs to be created within the g-20 , thereby giving china a level of influence that reflects its economic weight and demanding that it assume a commensurate share of global responsibilities .
what matters is that the nominee enjoys the confidence of america and most other countries , and could reconcile countries with diverse interests in the true spirit of multilateralism . the us could choose to pick a dual national , or an immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . doing so leaves a multitude of options to elect the next wbg president . or it could back a non-american candidate out of an allied country . one could pick an american who appeals to another country , or one like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen .
according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its imperative for complex coordination , has created perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” to thrive . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become tools for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence even more recently . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country to think tanks to “ advance ” the chinese narrative ” globally . in terms of shadow influence-peddling , china ’s ’s actions have been particularly telling . these include networks like silk ks and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which also recently built a “ national committee ” on china-us relations .
“ [ t hat ] to subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” but the current very high level of oil prices led forecasters to begin to separate their expectations for economic growth . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says sinai in the american economic forecaster allen . world oil prices have climbed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , before rising to the mid level – $ 50 . today ’s oil prices are still just two-thirds the real peak reached during the iranian revolution of 1979 , and future markets expect house prices to plummet and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel .
and , owing to increased american scrutiny , america ’s foreign direct investment ( fdi ) has already collapsed by more than 80 % from its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals threaten to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , limit chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist out american stock exchanges completely from american stock exchanges . america has also become more suspicious of us-directed chinese students and scholars , who may well be in a position to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-dominated international financial system and shield itself from america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s weaponization of us currency . at the same time , cross-border flows of data and information will become restricted , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between america and
far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . next year will almost certainly see a massive drag on american corporate defaults , even as many us firms entered into recession with relatively strong balance sheets . america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . state and municipal finance are in even worse shape . with tax revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of american municipalities were able to go to receivership , as new york did in the 1970s .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the entire national income of over 100 countries . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour , respectively . well , if the top nine donated their earnings would be the equivalent of around three months ' income for the bottom ten years . to put those astronomical figures into perspective , in july i tried to certify that , in the united states , you had to pull out at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . in relative terms , that is $ 9,000 per hour , or $ 540,000 per hour , respectively .
she is the well-wisher to freedom and autonomy of all . but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . american power is instead viewed as resting upon a pillar of inspiration ” rather than a “ pillar ” of action . she is the champion , and the vindicator one ’s own only . for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaiming independence day in 1821 that the united states is “ going not abroad ” in search of monsters to destroy .
the court ruled against the united states-based animal rights group people for their ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photos of the holocaust ’s victims with photos of their animals in the factory farms , and in the slaughterhouses . on the other hand , it used the holocaust , which we would all agree was utterly horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer . posters bear the trip : “ to animals , there are all people nazis ” – a line from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . peta was , of course , not convinced that the holocaust victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . according to the court , germany ’s law on liberty speech failed to protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims appears banal and trivial : the way we shall treat the animals . ”
for example , as machines become increasingly competent at their disposal , robots are replacing a growing pool of workers . rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether operating a dairy farm or running a government . as we continually try to apply new technologies to advance human and environmental well-being , this distinction is vitally important . it will not be long before those robots fulfill more complex tasks , but also learning more quickly than workers can learn . avoiding barriers to technological progress , for example , requires understanding and addressing its downsides .
if greek exports were rising at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , a recession could have ended now . today , portugal looks like a potential loss of more than 10 % of its output for greece . this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of its output for greece . its shortfall in exports has thus turned a recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . moreover , the lack of export-led growth has made fiscal adjustment far more difficult .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the u.s. , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less well equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were used for nontrade purposes , they were an act of last resort , as was true of apartheid south africa , where they had succeeded because they had no multilateral backing . unlike the usmca , which was at least premised on the goal of resolving trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento be a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . in other words , a commercial arms race was neither deployed to address a trade issue , nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia after its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . once trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance non-trade goals , the damage to the entire trading system does and can be enormous .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . faced with all of this , the un predicts that the world ’s population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , surpassing ten billion by the end of this century . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this has produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learnering articles , including the usual dire malthusian prediction . yet the future we face is not one of low population growth , but of too little in the world . after all , such projections misrepresent the underlying demographics .
in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after the constitution changes , ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its border with russia . the european union applies pressure on all sides , including russia , where it holds the option of lifting economic sanctions as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s aid in its peace effort . in theory , negotiations are now being held between a government in kyiv and a separatist leader . the european union is applying pressure on all sides , including russia , where it holds out the possibility of lifting economic sanctions as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s aid during its peace effort . if , however , russia does indeed gain full control over the separatist regions and actively integrating them into its economy , as the bild ’s document shows , the kremlin can no longer be regarded as an outside party trying to influence an uncooperative ally .
nothing illustrates the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 and the hubris and bush administrations of today ’s iraq war . back in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies after manipulating bogus assertions . back in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , and it waged a totally legitimate war aimed at reviving the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . the result was utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s ’s ’s ’s moral standing . nothing illustrates the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 and the hubris and the deceit of today ’s iraq war .
such programs were fine , the argument goes , over the industrialized economies of the great depression and the post-world war ii baby boom , but have become obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial , post-industrial , post-industrial , and post-industrial economies . advocates of this argument propose a different kind of model . just as corporations today are far happier promoting workers ’ pension ’ contributions by making their employees their privately-held plans , so governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . one of the odd claims made in the debates over social insurance now roiling the world ’s wealthiest countries is that the government-funded defined-benefit pension programs ( like america ’s ’s ’s social security system ) are outmoded .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including that of a massive run-up in the debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the misguided troika programs foisted on it . if there is a moral hazard , it is on the side of lenders , particularly the private sector , that reframe them repeatedly . if europe allowed those debts to migrate from the private sector to public sector , then the well-established pattern over the last half-century , it is europe , not greece , that should be bearing the brunt of the consequences . does anyone in their right mind think that any country would voluntarily place itself through what greece has gone through just getting a free ride out of its creditors ? so it is not debt restructuring ; its absence is “ immoral . ”
if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade , without reaping some of the benefits from protectionism . there is no question that europe and china have a strong interest in depressing world prices of their imports or the resulting revenues . while some european countries suffer from high unemployment levels , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that pursue expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . employment considerations are by no means a central issue , either . europe and china have little interest in depressing world prices of their imports or the resulting revenues .
this is the view shared by many in europe today . it is also the view held by the majority of people in europe today . perhaps it is even obama ’s view itself , one that plays by time , desperate to spin out of the approval of an attack on syria to a american congress . in fact , saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worthwhile for him . perhaps it is obama ’s view of the majority of people in europe .
leave aside in making an even stronger case against godlessness , recall the atrocities of the atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century , and view the assault on those whose determination to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason . it ’s this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack . and , with such a target , it ’s not very difficult to poke holes and pile on ridicule . but we are prone to retains to adulthood the same view of god formed in childhood . an old man with a long beard watches over us , and most of us retain a pretty literal view of the story of his son , written in the bible , ’s new testament .
many western governments nonetheless refuse to place their forces under the au command , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . at the same time , the un ’s complicated command chain envisaged for an au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . but the un has found it hard to attract enough volunteers on such forces , as foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remains predominantly african . their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most other support to the un mission , while enabling the au to retain its overall strategic goals . their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most other aid to the mission itself , while giving the au the authority to retain its overall strategic goals .
new york – following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused the advanced country of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , the advanced economies ’ policies have been driven by vast and volatile capital flows into major emerging markets , pushing up their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later described as a “ capital tsunami . ” in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from the advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . this confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for some time . new york , there was a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration after the recent ecb governing council meeting and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first-ever testimony to the us congress : both asserted that their policy decisions alone would reflect domestic conditions .
these are simplistic assertions , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding about the kingdom ’s ’s role in yemen and , indeed , across the arab world . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , is seeking to take action against its own poorest . others argue that the fight against the houthis , the zaidi shia-led political movement in yemen , is but one element in a wider shia war that has supposedly been waging by saudi arabia . riyadh – saudi arabia has drawn much of the criticism lately for its leadership role in the war against the houthi rebels in yemen . saudi arabia is not out of step with zaidis .
in the absence of an answer to that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have made america ’s leaders look like a diplomatic boon for america in reinforcing and expanding american security arrangements in asia . but , in order to disband america and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests , or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of values and ideas ? south korea has tightened its military alliance with the us ; japan has backed away from the move to get america ’s marine airbase out of okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines – among others – attracting closer american influence . china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics .
given the program ’s dramatic success , when it comes to paying for expensive “ schooling sets , ” other countries are following suit . and , while women ’s employment rates have fallen as women have left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially for store formats , have risen sharply . those interested in democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalistic right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and promotes families . lithuania has introduced a less-than-generous version of its family 500 , + , in 2018 . given its dramatic program ’s success , other countries are following suit .
to be fair , resolution 242 may not be blamed for that state of affairs as well . the various people have read that to mean different things . that may make a resolution resolution easier , but more difficult to pursue . that is why it comes as little wonder that there is not yet much peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless recent diplomacy by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for a resolution that occurs when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline -- which will bypass russia when it overends -- can not re-define the country 's economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought . the eu 's emphasis on the btc pipeline also makes a clear reflection of georgia 's pro-western strategic orientation . on the other hand , georgia 's long-term economic success will depend less on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is required in the united states or italy . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . instead , georgian 's emphasis on the btc pipeline also reflects georgia 's pro-western strategic orientation .
of course , none of this means that an international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson from the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome when the will does exist . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , the divisions need not be fatal . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still act coherently , even without fully agreeing to it at all . what it does mean , though , is that europe is finding a way forward when it comes to foreign policy .
in combination with gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood up to 19 % below the global average for developing countries , 11 % below the south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % out of latin america and the caribbean . until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was scrutinized and occupied by hunter-gatherers and subsistence agriculture practitioners . land was relatively plentiful , and is allocated by tribal chiefs without regard for western-style property rights . similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind countries in south asia , and 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ?
and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their food income , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that a few years of progress toward reduced poverty might reverse . in the absence of solutions that postpone intensifying pressure on supply , hunger , and malnutrition will increase . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food-price terms , a shift to higher-famines in many countries , rising populations , greater use of biofuels , and the effects of climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . the possibility of fed action on the table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding . geneva ii marked the recent sharp spike in food prices and rising worries about food security .
as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and the andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” ” ( such as financial-sector governance systems and procurement rules ) , they become too distracted by decision-distort protocols to do “ what used to be in reality . ” this does not have an easy task when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : creating organizations that are more obsessed with being abiding by new , burdensome processes than they are to achieve their stated goals . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a envisioned community in whose name , “ can not be realized . indeed , as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing a capable state that is accountable and governed by law is one crowning achievement of human civilization .
likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of themselves as constituting a great power . turkey faces a refugee crisis that dwarfs that one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey is facing a refugee crisis that dwarfs that confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and the heightened tensions with the kremlin over its downing of a russian warplane near its line with syria ’s border in november . this approach mirrors that pursued by russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and tremendous means of his office to assert credit for restoring his country ’s national pride , particularly as he tries to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices .
and at this year ’s world economic forum annual meeting in south africa , nearly 900 prominent businessmen from the u.s. , europe , asia , asia , and africa have met with new political leadership to chart a course forward . africa has a long road ahead for years . president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted the importance of americans -- typically the majority of africa ’s neglectful , save in the event of a deep crisis – the dramatic changes that have been made on the continent . while africa has a long road ahead , africa has a historical problem , too . it is on most measures , a few decades , if nowhere a century or more , beyond the advanced economies of economic organization and income levels .
in the past hundred years , the contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe , and the cold war may have done just that . dying to save your home , the family , or the country , can be rational . as the romanian philosopher e. m. bergen tells us : “ once man loses his faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a god that repercussions are incalculable . ” the moment you believe “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble .
if putin is serious about diversifying and empowering russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving the lives of his own country ’s people , he must attract high-tech and foreign investment , particularly from the west . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model , which failed once and for the second . russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; but , as long as putin continues to pursue an obsolete and antagonistic foreign policy , he may be able to undermine the incumbent . for that , he needs to pursue democratic reforms , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges would be bad for anyone .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of the labor unions throw out a wrench role in the wheels of globalization ? or will their increasing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable , through the promotion of great equality and fairness ? along with their political clout , union stand out in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for postal employees ; a number of american presidential candidates , having earlier misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concern about labor standards . one way or another , union leaders stand as the main wildcard in the evolution of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond . or will their increasing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable ?
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western equipment suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to dominate half their markets . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments . first , chinese firms now dominate the global hydro-power-plant export market . sinohydro alone , meanwhile , has eclipsed western equipment suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to dominate half of the us market . second , china ’s dam-generating industry ’s rising clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , bring down the communist system , and replace it with democratic capitalism . others regarded this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and america chose the eu over a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate among “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and longstanding . but no debate is more persistent than that among those who believe that american foreign policy is ’s principal purpose should be to influence other states ’ external behavior and those who hold that should shape their internal nature . new york , a series of recurring debates over american foreign policy , for example isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism .
second , a bri budget offer would be a powerful tool for creating a “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that can claim is her ultimate goal . she has also acknowledged that any privileged approach to eu markets would require budget contributions , as has been done with norway and switzerland . but , in her florence speech , may vowed to british firms something close to the current level of access to eu markets . until last month , britain might have avoided defining this phrase , for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . if britain ’s transitional payments have continued near the current level of € 10 billion for the five or six years realistically demanded of negotiating a permanent commercial relationship , they would add up to the same sum .
many of the 52 % of britons who voted for the leave want to remain in the single market because all of those who voted no remain . no “ phased implementation ” of the trade deal that has not been finalized , so uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other firms exporting to the eu now should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that might want to avoid . even if may manages to strike an exit deal , she has been impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector trade deal in less than two years . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ttip ) , for example , has taken seven years to hash out , and has nearly scotched the parliament of belgium ’s wallonia region . perhaps has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit .
for the first time , there is a lively and smart debate around that issue , at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles . that is an important one for all of the obvious reasons . after all , open societies are incompatible with closed economies . a functioning private sector that creates reasonable jobs , and schools that educate large young populations in today ’s interdependent world are prerequisites of progress . in particular , the israeli-palestinian issue is critical for all the visible reasons .
this demeanor is part of what has made it more difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta . in his many successful years as sibiu ’s mayor , iohannis distinguished from the charismatic , shrewd politicians to whom romanian politicians are used , showing a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . but iohannis different not only in his political approach ; he is the evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished from the establishment ’s charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanians are accustomed to finding their rhetoric aimed at fostering tolerance and cooperation . the electorate was seemingly tired of the persistent confrontation between ceausescu and ponta , and , more generally , of polish politics , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their countries ’ political scene was becoming .
british prime minister david cameron has introduced the measure of happiness into national statistics , developed by action on happiness , an organization that i have helped to find . the dalai lama has recently helped launch a series of such courses in london , developed by action on happiness , an organization that i have helped to find . some of these may be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits , such as appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks , demonstrate measurable improvements in wellbeing . at the same time , entire societies may be trying to perform badly . how countries monitor happiness has a huge impact on happiness .
all of this raises an important question : does the us even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? more recently , america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia concerning the end of syria ’s civil war , following the chemical-weapons attack , which left at least 1,400 people dead . israel , for its part , is but a small part of this global pattern . a new global order has given way to a order-less world , in which trustworthiness and unpredictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle commitments . if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less reliable and predictable , or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding then definitely does not .
most dangerous trends , including the upsurge in global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously since the 2004 onwards . thatcher herself was no enthusiast on credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in the credit card . ” it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and the proliferation of exotic and ill-understood financial tools that lay at the heart of the 2007-08 crisis . financial interests opposed it vigorously at a time when they viewed it as the slender end of a dangerous wedge , even though they could not have guessed anything but how thick that eventually becomes . the 1986 consumer-service act put an end to pure self-regulation .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu might conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . a unilateral us military strike would produce potentially dire consequences . there is a better approach to preventing the spread of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” built on the incentive system that includes economic and technical support for countries that join together , along with security guarantees from the un security council ’s permanent members . the zone should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside ; and , once again , backed by the un security council ’s permanent members , impose military sanctions on those attempting to develop wmds . indeed , iranian hardliners can welcome an israeli strike , and even seek to provoke it , as a means of rallying iranian populations behind them .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war in recent months . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces obliterate the remaining sunni insurgencies , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood , finally spreading once more . yet what is to be done , and by whom ? more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war as well . united nations reports of atrocity atrocities , the internet images of assaults on civilians , and accounts for the suffering that refugees rend our heart . more recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that it would veto the united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move .
for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks of nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant were supposed to convince them otherwise . now that a raucous regional situation is on track to reach a raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of israel and its palestinian neighbors has had little to do with it . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s looming expectations , and their willingness to get behind the peace process takes a back seat to this struggle . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity-building , human rights , and how to create economies that respond to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . now that a raucous regional situation is entering into the raucous of the american election season ( where no issue today can be drawn , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have little to do with it . )
according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the impact of climate change , financial institutions should be supporting small - and medium-size companies . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment , and up to 33 % of gdp , these numbers are substantially higher when informal small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) are included . when the sme builds its own climate resilience , it can have cascading impacts in communities around it . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should promote small and medium-size companies .
professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that household spending an additional $ 14 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from reducing warming , between 1.4 and three times higher . and , because methane accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also create gas . in fact , cutting methane is even cheaper than cutting a ton of carbon – and potentially even bigger . the us could also place a larger center of focusing on reducing black carbon , consider responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of the arctic melting . and , because methane is a far shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can avert some of the worst forms of short-term warming through its mitigation operation .
today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that threatens or challenge china ; rather , it ’s the enduring attraction of “ the american dream . ” it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , accepting a symbol resembling a statue of liberty . but china ’s challenge may well be more troublesome . it not only must live with the reality of american power ; it must also reflect the american ideal .
first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most important decisions within the bloc still call for unanimity among member states . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world a reality . but , collectively , the eu ’s member states , even without the united kingdom , would constitute a power of similar magnitude . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most important decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among member states . yet european leaders have been tempted by the prospect of a “ g3 ” world order .
trump has temporarily exempted those two countries from us tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration on renegotiating the north american free trade agreement . after all , this is how the us administration handled canada and mexico . whereas the us has , on average , less tariff protections than europe , the difference is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs duty averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for america ) . regulatory divergences amount to a far more important impediment to us-european trade than tariffs do . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries .
how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their levy on a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but also prevent any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it as a license fee ? we need not believe in genetic determinism to discover that argument compelling . proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental feature of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . will there be no need for us to believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling . do we somehow still have a “ own ” own ” ” ” ” ” ?
in species that reproduce sexually , sex is one of the strongest and johns ’s strongest in the body . humans are no exception in this respect . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive aspirations imaginable . instead , they argued , we ought to stop demanding paid sex ” ; but , without ever explaining how that should be done . there has also been opposition from some feminist organizations accusing amnesty international of protecting “ pimps and johns ” rights .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets won a growing share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . but deeper structural shifts are also playing a role . for a variety of goods , automation means that production location and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on labor costs . many companies are simplifying and retard their supply chains . since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing primarily to anemic world demand in the major economies and falling commodity prices .
indeed , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with a “ speech of withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether or not the security situation warrants it . the us is understandably convinced that a continued military presence in afghanistan is in its own interest . according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan , a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . nonetheless , there is a strong bipartisan support within the us for maintaining military outposts in afghanistan as a means to projecting hard power there and an increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan , might undercut its basing strategy .
according to waszczykowski , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a legitimate ” policy , ” ” ” ” by blocking other initiatives , or playing a hugely aggressive game . indeed , polish prime minister beata szydło has already initiated that strategy , by refusing to sign off on a summit ’s official record , as if that would render the outcome inconsequential with poland . such infantile ploys have already become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as though that would render them legitimate . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already started to implement a strategy by refusing to sign off on a summit ’s official track , as if that were to change the outcome inconsequential . according to waszczykowski , poland ’s ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres , after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of dual norms and flocking ” ” ” ” ” ”
important energy technologies will include coal conversion to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , use of tar sands and oil shale , and growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technology , and safe , reliable nuclear power . that will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , not “ “ combat to the earth of finish ” over middle east oil . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways will include food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar-thermal electricity , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but possibilities for a massive increase in usage of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technology , and secure and reliable nuclear power .
by the end of the century , japan had ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese rich , but also bolstered the country ’s soft power . by the late century , japan had ’s remarkable performance not only made japan rich , but also bolstered the country ’s soft power . asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s ’s economic success . there was a short-lived political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960s , with nehru jackets and maoist revolutions , but that was brief . asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s remarkable economic success .
likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , rather than cut funding for important research programs like the horizon of 2020 . europeans would benefit directly through enhanced internet access , lower energy costs , and more through efficient transport links . but , with post-fire austerity and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the budget ’s shape , by ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the eu ’s proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including by expanding high-speed broadband networks to rural areas and developing transportation and power infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value through coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby reaching economies of scale , and by avoiding duplication of national spending .
in 1997 denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . france got its message , and the french were soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed against china . the french were then rewarded with a string of lucrative contracts in china . china responded by canceling a danish trade mission . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china would become even more muted .
in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is an important driver of health outcomes . and it brings people together to work toward universal health coverage and to ensure everyone ’s right to health . it encompasses research initiatives , as well as global public goods , such as vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs . the global agenda on this front determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent illness , and manage care . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or has access to nutritious foods .
in other words , sandra day o’connor , america ’s first-ever female supreme court member , who was renowned for not having a wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” judiciary , “ brings on our work , ” whatever that may be , our lifetime of experience and our values . still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . for example , studies of america ’s multiple court courts show that male judges are more willing to hearing the cases of bias when one woman turns out into her bench and substantially more willing when another woman adds . consider a woman ’s perspective on the conflict , which is responsible for her own sake . “ each of us , sandra ’s day o’connor the first female leaders of the american supreme court , who were renowned for not having a wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” justice , “ bring us to the job , ” whatever that may be , our lifetime of experiences , and our values .
ultimately , an advisor to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . but selecting a action for the greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . our hands are becoming dirty as to help either a terrorist or a dictator . he immediately adds , but this gets one ’s hand dirty in that manner is “ often the right thing to do . ”
with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen , owing to saudi financial support , it is little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . since then , yemeni labor has been banned in saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men have often turned over to another saudi policy gone awry , its propagation of exports by the sunni wahhabi form of islam . but yemen , too , is preoccupied with its own destructive policies . but , in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis have been expelled , because they have been seen as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war .
but we still have much to learn . for some patients with certain cancers , immunotherapy has become revolutionary , allowing people who have been on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with no detectable track record . now these fundamental studies have led to the development of new , powerful immunotherapies effective against cancer . independently , honjo and colleagues identify another protein that had performed a similar function . yet the immunotherapy revolution remains in its infancy .
but it has followed this approach on the macro level and for problems elsewhere in the economy without examining itself . the good news is that if any eu has proved capable of innovating , this is silicon valley . the only way forward is by adapting to the new environmental pressures , and now that silicon valley – owing in large part to their own behaviors – faces a lot of them . unless and until this changes , it will be over-used . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start measuring their skill sets at the pace of innovation , and their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves .
for starters , us farmers have trained farmers at once how to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , residues that can be used as goat fodder . here , too , the platform of innovation is being helped . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to create a positive feedback loop . recognizing the benefits of these practices , farmers have immediately started to increase crop density , applying dung , and rotating crops , thereby increasing yields and producing more fodder for healthier goats . when farmers are assured that their goats will not be stolen , and may sell them at decent prices , they are better able to invest in an improved their manufacturing system .
in the early nineteenth century , wages had been stagnating for nearly 50 years , before reemerging again . that may have been an extreme situation for lower-skilled workers today . but , for lower-skill workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep five imperatives in mind . with fear of heightened inequality now already rising , governments will need to rethink policies to provide income - and proactive support to displaced workers .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , while operating below potential , and failing to implement many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading a process in which all were profoundly engaged . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and a pan-african panel of practitioners that he appointed , through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other stakeholders , are to be implemented . this is mostly a matter of mindset , and not means it . fortunately , mindsets are beginning to shift .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , questions a bond in new york city , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . at best , market participants will applaud that decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position does n’t change . both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are reluctant to intervene in the currency markets by purchasing and selling reserves . now suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond and uses the us dollars to enlarge one of its more advanced , highly competitive dairy plants in order to sell more powdered milk to asia . both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not thought to intervene in the currency market through purchases and reserves .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi ’s government is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for the digital future . in france , the government has invested an extensive national digital plan , projected to create 1.1 million more jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind . the consequences are already becoming apparent : according to the bloomberg innovation index 2016 , the american is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having dropped two spots since 2015 . despite having spearheaded the internet race in the 1990s , america is now the only major advanced economy without an explicit plan of digitization .
in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender gap in their electoral lists receive less than 30 % of either state budget supplement . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to deal with this problem . greater care responsibilities , bolstered by public perceptions of a “ woman ’s role , ” ” ” have severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office . beyond financing constraints , women face high socioeconomic and cultural barriers to political participation . similarly , in iceland , political parties are losing 50 % of their state-level funding if their candidate pool includes less than 30 % of either gender .
by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be an respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing better serves through a nuclear-weapons program . that might well be true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable to the people ’s will . but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions might have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is so often the case , sanctions might have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to push for a deal . the international sanctions that have been imposed on iran would seem to aid the latter , rather than the former .
long term , patient finance must also be made available to help societies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . the bec ’s argument that the “ new model ” will present a public-private partnership between governments , research institutes , and investors ” shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . as with the information technology revolution , clean-energy advances will require engagement from both the public and private sectors . in fact , one hopes that the paris agreement will change that . because we may not yet know which innovations will take the greatest stake in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be allocated to a wide range of choices .
for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to empowering its children , particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds , as well as quality schooling . but those challenges will not be addressed , and the opportunities will not materialize , unless children everywhere have the skills they need . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of the funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . even so , senegal is struggling to fulfill every cost in strengthening its educational system .
advances in the defense sector lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil-synergies and investment in research and development , which is fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . europe ’s defense industry alone will be unable to make headway without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all of europe ’s suppliers . a critical component in the coordination and orderly functioning of europe ’s ’s security and defense policies is europe ’s defense agency . as eu member states make progress on this path propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues to eliminate unnecessary spending and optimize resource usage . the goal must be to boost european security ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe into the forefront of global security .
a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . in the southern city of guangzhou , at the heart of china ’s shark-fin trade , vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years . for example , china banned the shark-fin soup , a traditional delicacy , at the official government dinners and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in the shark-fin sales between last december and april . it should be harder to spur countries to take bolder action to protect their shark populations , given that shark ’s economic value plummets when it kills . a single reef shark that frequents the major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually or $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; the equivalent shark would be worth roughly $ 108 dead .
because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented personal control ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and the division of territory within each other . tudjman 's excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power on its fight against serbian aggression . to accomplish this with the bare minimum of a fuss he muzzled the press and the electronic media . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing with the dictator with milosevic was straightforward . the truth is that he used a negotiated form of hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and the russian-style plunder of the state by his coterie of loyalists .
hong kong ’s government could call for changes to increase the openness and fairness by electing the chief executive , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . since 1997 , 55-61 % of the electorate has cast the ballot for the democratic candidates in the legislative council for the first time . the current proposed arrangements would enable the chinese government to veto any candidate that it did n’t like , spurring criticism that what comes out on offer is an iranian-style election : “ by may one side may vote for another . ” its membership is chosen by only about 7 % of hong kong ’s popular electorate ; its voting procedures seek to obstruct the nomination of either candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies . according to a baseline law , the election committee ought to be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates .
but in the gaza strip soon afterward , the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of their ten municipal councils . reformers insist that an overwhelming majority supports moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern . january ’s palestinian election was won by a rather moderate leader , because it was put forward by the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted the election . that case is not yet proven . in support of democracy , liberals dismiss the argument used by today ’s rulers that the first free election would be their final , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes .
increasingly , industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other industries , such as reduced procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . there is little room for doubt that clean-tech industries can expect plenty of sunny days ahead . as clean-tech companies continue to scale , additional opportunities will emerge . there is little room for doubt that clean-tech industries can expect plenty of sunny days ahead . this is a global segment meeting a growing global need .
princeton – the economic gloom that envelops the world in 2008 has led many to question whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , that number has soared . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and the middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; in fact , the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and , at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and the middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ;
more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and chair of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city mayor and bloomberg ceo of bloomberg larry summers , has issued announcements regarding market-related data for climate change . america ’s securities and exchange commission , for one , already discusses these issues , as it analyzes its capacity to respond to investor and entrepreneurial needs related esg issues . their primary goals include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and key performance indicators ; monitor , prepare , and disclose comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and integrate sustainable production and consumption practices in company business strategies and models . given the magnitude of the challenge , however , what matters is too much to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with competent standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . global awareness of the topic is growing .
this month , the g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . the pursuit of prosperous , inclusive economies must unite behind efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs , viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , together with an integrated environment and sustainable-development management , can not be accomplished without the political will . this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro create pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ capacity to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that has enabled them to curb global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – global financial markets in 2008 experienced their worst possible recession since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . global stock markets plummeted by well over 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch materialized ; and a large number of emerging-market economies staggered to the international monetary fund in help . major financial institutions went bust ; others bought back cheap ; or they survived only after major bailouts . is the worst behind the us or the eu ? global stock markets fell by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch appears ; and many emerging-market economies staggered on the international monetary fund in help .
and , of course , we tend to recall those horrible images much longer . we have reacted more acutely to images of starving children than to reports about improved nutritional levels in africa . add to that a second psychological bias neuroscientists debate : because our species have evolved to fend off danger , we tend to be sensitive to bad news . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to corrode the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads ” to ” nature . good news is not news ; media executives often mutter .
insightful bloggers attract many more clicks than are doing official mouthpieces . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes the information or the right to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” is in the making . china ’s government has seemingly started to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and downs , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . this thirst for unbiased information underscores the dramatic change brought by the internet into china ’s political landscape .
new york – countries often devote the public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but that need not be the case , either . annual import expo , which will become part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of major orders from chinese firms , including the state-owned enterprises that the government tasked with making expo a expo a success . if expo succeeds in boosting imports , however , one might expect it to shrink china with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai , really is rare . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , however , as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai , is truly rare .
it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . its history tells us how it sees itself and others as well . london – the historian norman stone who died in june – has always insisted that history students learn foreign languages . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . knowledge of languages should thus be an indispensable component of a historian ’s engineering devices .
prime minister haider allawi assures a world that there will be , and president bush is echoing his words at the end . while that scenario is straightforward , reality is not . at the same time , the probability that iraq ’s elections will be held this coming january must be lower than 50 % , and we can be certain that these wo n’t be free and fair elections across the entire country . as a result , the first nagging question is this : will there really be elections next january ? more neutral observers – and , indeed , the daily news bulletins on bombings and hostage taking and “ rebellious ” – cast doubt on that prospect .
last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would force facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who purchase online advertising , thereby closing the loophole on which russia exploited during this election . the tougher challenge will be strengthening the institutions that are vital to the functioning of democracy , specifically civics training and local journalism . but making amends through technical fixes and a public vow to be better corporate citizens will address only the most publicized problem . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would force facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who purchase online advertising , thereby shutting down the loophole that russia has exploited during its election campaign . each new revelation in july by appealing to russian meddling in the 2016 campaign indicates the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process into sharper focus .
yet , while import restrictions may ease the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not stop companies from rearranging where growth opportunities are the strongest . nor will they recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . in america ’s presidential campaign , trade defenses are fashionable once again . they will not protect workers from technological change ; today , policymakers are often clueless .
a move by military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons may bring an end to the conflict , with military commanders gaining credit and political capital . when it comes to the creation of terrorists and undocumented migrants , two critical issues for europe , arab military dictators have an inglorious track record . yet four decades of military/dictatorship may be enough to libyans around the world , a majority of whom never truly benefit from their country 's wealth or potential . getting “ stuck in the transition ” is a third potential scenario , with libya remaining in a “ greek zone , ” neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free . ” algeria in the 1990 's provides a potent reminder to that , and western governments are unwilling or unable to restart the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats making violence theocrats and refugees .
third , whereas muslims could attest against anyone , christians and jews could attest only against another non-muslim . but , of course , if they participated in a case against a muslim , that had to be handled in an islamic tribunal . first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to give the benefits of any doubt about a fellow muslim . when a muslim and a non-muslim face each other in a court , the muslim enjoyed substantial advantages . second , the court staff became entirely muslim , implying that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack its osirak reactor , then iraq had a right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility in dimona . they employ something like a cost/benefit analysis , based on a subjective sense of danger . yet there is no way of making an objective assessment of fear , and although it might have been possible , using cost/benefit analyses to invade one country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . some argue that the real point is the risk of attack , and that could have occurred when weapons of mass destruction are deployed . the better option of making sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law .
with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place at the end of september to that end . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions among the most vulnerable to outbreaks in the developing world . the world ’s governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate the preparation of these goals by the year 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the un millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire that year . most economies become less equitable , with widening gaps between the rich and the poor .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or a spaniard able to visualize and develop thriving global demand for a product or service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara , is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . it is time for diplomats to do the same , and more . from lahore to lagos , mexico ’s city to mumbai , governments look after their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem solvers , transforming development aid into investment . today , they should encourage job creators and trouble solvers , and transform development assistance into investment .
political developments in slovakia during the last 20 years of communism have set the czech republic and slovakia , except for both poland and hungary . whereas both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization that allowed for relatively large semi-official zones of borderless communist control , slovakia , after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 , became a neo-stalinist regime . when the former communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist party and hungary transformed itself into credible democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . likewise , while such politicians often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' '' their actual policies , like those of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , france is in a demagogic populist or authoritarian . political developments in slovakia during the past twenty years of communism have set the czech republic and slovakia aside from both poland and hungary .
even a state like california , viewed by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of gdp and a general obligation of debt of just 4 % of gdp . the eu ’s maastricht treaty explicitly reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to shift funds to other countries ’ people in ways that americans are willing to do among people in different states . a third important difference is that every american nation has a duty to rebalance its annual operating budgets . whereas the “ rainy day ” funds that accumulate in boom years are used to deal with temporary income shortfalls , states that have “ a general obligation of borrowing are constrained by capital projects like roads and schools . ” such limits on state-level budget deficits are the logical implication that american states can not create money to fill the fiscal gaps .
i have little doubt that , sometime later this century , one would be in a position to buy pocket professors – perhaps with holographic images , for the ease with which one can buy kasparov chess computer today . more to the point , globalization has leapt at a rapid pace through much of the past century , at a particularly accelerated pace over its past two decades . i have no doubt that , sometime later this century , one has the opportunity to buy pocket professors , perhaps with holographic images , because so easily as one can buy the coasts kasparov chess computer today . so , let ’s get back to india and to china ? my immediate point is that , at the end of the twentieth century , i no doubt sense safe – as the economics professor himself .
some empirical studies of cross-country datasets find net benefits on indicators of environmental degradation such as local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . specialization within individual countries enables people to extract more of what they want , which – especially at higher-income levels – covers cleaner air and water . so is trade globalization , equilibrium , better , or deteriorating ? when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . provided that countries have effective nationally determined institutions , trade and growth give them the means to clean their air .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to an effort to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . great significance was read to who signed the official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s commanding heights in red square , when revising military parades . consider what has happened on december 17 , if not more so . kremlinologists have monitored ( in whatever form possible ) who are up and down among the core soviet leadership . all of this had been grammar-school stuff compared to efforts to decode the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque .
this initiative is destined to fail , because it was the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or the g-20 ’s peer reviews in its recent history . even where massive spillovers are clearly being recognized , it is hard to see how that exercise would address the fundamental problem behind the currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . they surely have a right to defend on one side , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent reserve accumulation ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are in fact temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other current-level macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . so , what should latin american economies do ? in a desperate last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over ” news ” for a handful of systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margin of its country ( article iv ) consultations .
east asian governments knew then that the imf 's policies would deepen their downturns , but were powerless to resist . if china let its currency float again , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . countries were warned : avoid us trade deficits and building up reserves because they were the key frontline defense . east asian countries followed that advice , and for good reason : they saw the consequences of poor reserves . the imf had the money it needed .
more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with eight embracing full legalization under the law . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to introduce a carbon price , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . three states have implemented laws offering to pay a paid family leave , with one-fourth dropping . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to make a carbon price , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean power plan , while expanding their economies .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it , new york , new york city , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” frank sinatra sang of a city that attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious , overflow people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . but the impact of large cities runs deeper than economic , or even cultural , power ; cities may fundamentally alter people ’s lives , and even the people itself . in a sense , this is not an elusive phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with its highly multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals are rife with opportunities . in other words , the larger a city , the higher its average wage , productivity levels , the number of patents per person , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv . in 2010 , geoffrey west , combined with a team of researchers , found that several socioeconomic measures , both positive and negative , increased with the size of the local population .
at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases , made possible through an historic deal brokered by the bush administration , were held up by america ’s insistence on exemptions from its supplier ’s responsibilities in case of accident , some regard india as gratuitous rejection of american aircraft as a gratuitous refusal to show that friendship with india helps america , too . ( presumably , the eventual winner of the bid will require us firms to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american firms wo n’t do . ) as if all of this were n’t enough to decide against america , clincher might well have been the indian government ’s desire to evade any additional procurement controversy at a time when corruption allegations beset it from all parties . a decision made on the technicalities that many felt would have been easier to defend than one based on political reflections . as if all of this were n’t enough to make a decision against america , clincher might well be the indian government ’s desire to avoid another procurement controversy at a time when massive corruption allegations beset by all parties .
even stronger banks are being pushed to increase their capital buffers . as a result , large transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bailouts to fail ) . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for a time headed the world ’s largest international banks list in 2009 , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . in most cases , this means continuing to cut back on lending , exacerbate the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . when it comes to bailing out banks that demanded state rescues , european competition regulations demanding divestment and downsizing .
trump shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded . ” more ominous , according to confidential america ’s intelligence report , north korea has accomplished the capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , perhaps possessing as many as 60 bombs . north korea has immediately done just that , threatening to conduct a “ enveloping ” ” ” strike on american territory by guam . the stakes are looming in kim and trump ’s game of chicken . and , indeed , as that exchange for a rhetorical fire has unfolded , the us was reportedly preparing revised military options for striking north korea .
the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining the top pay rather than the moral justification for the system ’s sustainability . two conclusions can be drawn from all this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others in mind , given the public goods that society provides . but do n’t hold your breath waiting to agree with them .
they understood that unemployment would skyrocket if the country 's monetary policies were set set by the eu central bank , which focused single-mindedly on inflation ( and also suffers inadequate attention to financial stability ) . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now around , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized these relationships ' antithesis : many european leaders want to see greek prime minister alexis tsipras 's end of a leftist government . the economy would suffer because the underlying economic model underlying the eurozone predicated on the power relationships that have disadvantaged workers . after all , it is extraordinarily incongruously suited to have in greece a government that so opposed the type of policies that have done so much to raise inequality in so many advanced countries and that are so committed to curbing unbridled power of wealth . when sweden did , swedes said , no .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two important predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but his rejection of pluralism and persecution of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the brothers ’ hands and place himself beyond the scrutiny of egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s judiciary , demonstrated to be his undoing . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets to suppress the military coup that ousted him . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first freely elected president , when millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering a military coup that ousted him . but it is all too soon to write down political islam as an able participant , even the leading power , in a pluralist democracy .
embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , meaning that they have the capacity to develop into any kind of human tissues . this carries great promise , particularly for the sufferers of spinal cord injuries and disease . on may 19 , a group of korean researchers at newcastle university has announced that they had been successful at producing a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and a genetic material from their stem cells . on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in the journal sciences the results of research that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to fit male dna and female patients of different ages . both breakthroughs amount to a staggering advance in stem cell research .
by contrast , china ’s government retained the same six-layer administrative structure – starting with the central government and moving down through the provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – from the founding of the people ’s republic of 70 years ago . this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program , by reducing the threshold beyond which firms must pay , and by eliminating exemptions for firms or industries . finally , china may be able to lower government expenditures ( in the medium term ) by making its vast administrative hierarchy more efficient . in recent decades , many of the world ’s largest companies have used new technology to cut the number of employees components , from top executives to factory workers , thereby lowering costs and boosting efficiency . such action would not only boost fiscal sustainability ; additional revenues could total 2 % of gdp ; it would also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline of the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its capability , preventing catastrophic wars , or making people a more civilized and prudent position . nuclear deterrence , a threat to kill hundreds of thousands , or even hundreds , of thousands of human beings , is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars while making people a more civilized and prudent policy . indeed , the risks from a world free of nuclear weapons or just a minimal number of them are tremendous .
prions seem to defy all the conventional wisdom ; survivors of pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration on 340 ° c for less than four hours ; treatments that are routinely and reliably used to deactivate all well-known viruses and bacteria . as the tragedy unfolded ; on the other hand , researchers gained a stronger understanding of the underlying malady . infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s ’s machinery , reprogramming it into the fully willing executioner of prion replication . furthermore , prions lack their own genes , all of which are willing to use . gene prion is provided by an infected individual , in which it resides in the innocuous state .
daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly objected to the demands of the artistic side of the job . but american experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of the job . some conductors , rather than wanting to carry a “ tin cup ” as they wave their batons , have turned away important posts in the us for this reason , feeling that it will meddle in their art . performing arts advocates in europe point to the american people , where , among other things , musical directors of even the major orchestras are now widely expected to participate fully in fundraising activities and to be active in the local community on orchestras . the same holds for fear , if not all , in europe .
this would hurt and weaken saddam , establishing unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe penalties . rather than forswear that choice , but we ought to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legally crucial – can never actually support an invasion . recognizing that possibility , the council has declared outright the possibility of mounting an air-strikes program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , a republican guard , and other armed-power targets . at the same time , the council has been able to declare that any fresh aggression or any use , threat , or transmission of wmd would trigger saddam ’s removal and his persecution as an international criminal tribunal like slobodan milosevic . it would be bizarre to uphold the council ’s authority by means at its disposal .
this time , dr. ahmed , the iraqi counterpart , has realized that the game was up for grabs . this time , they knew precisely what vast magnets were to be used for : to produce weapons grade nuclear materials . some of the inspectors that he knew well had dined with them on collegial terms during their visits to vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his friends on a inspection team . soon , they knew that the inspectors had returned to tarmiya .
but china ’s dizzying rise also has dispelled three leading myths concerning the impact of economic growth . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply and then decline , in an “ inverted “ inverted “ u ” pattern or bell – as countries undergo economic development . the first is that growth reduces inequality and goes up to happiness . given the pace of china ’s economic rise since 1978 , its experience is re-building that claim more powerfully than any other case can . china , after all , is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries .
pakistan has held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another to the end of 2012 or early 2013 . had the supreme court not taken gilani , it would have been the first prime minister to finish his full term . it must also mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and providing citizens with the institutional means to settle their disputes . to be sure , democracy has always been supposedly meant to mean more than periodically hold free and fair elections . thus , pakistan has taken one more step toward developing a rules-based political system .
but , whatever this ignorance and its own economic interests , the eu should insist on ceding political prisoners and use all international institutions to put pressure on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights . on the other hand , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and to criminalize demands for a corporatist dialogue . that , 20 years after this epochal event , remains around cuba , is making that anniversary celebration poignant . to be sure , the tourists who crowd cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s beaches do n’t seem to realize this iron curtain . but just because of that epochal event , the eu should insist on freeing the political prisoners and harnessing every international institution to stem pressure from the cuban government ’s human-rights and civic rights .
but we are genuine , and thousands of us , from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrating for the sake of peace . some have been saying that the uprising in burma is over . but we nonetheless believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country . indeed , brigadier general kyaw hagel , the army ’s representative , recently told the un special envoy , ibrahim , that the marchers in the streets were the “ bogus monks . ” that is what the junta wants the world to think .
for example , though plato opposed the greeks ’ enslavement , he – like every other ancient greek , – condoned the enslavement of “ the barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) . today , by contrast , even the unabashedly non-philosophical person who states say , plato ’s “ media escort ” it , could readily explain why slavery is wrong : “ the person is a person . ” plato , however , was always at the center of his thinking , much like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ the barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) . plato , however , was always at the center of greeks ’ thinking , many of the moral truths we now take for granted never actually occurred . after all , he believed that being the “ philosopher ” meant that the responsibilities of a moral reformer should never appear .
here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , with colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . but it is at least as important to address the local-level social divisions that have emerged as a consequence of conflict , particularly in hubs of violence . such efforts must be supported by progress elsewhere : rural development , which is the only economic issue that is resolved in a peace agreement . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc has been involved may also be regarded as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . ) this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that have characterized rural colombia initially giving rise to the farc , with conflict concentrated in such areas .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , is making headlines worldwide . the youth unemployment rate exceeded 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , denmark , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of job-seekers under 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their opportunities to find a job remain low . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed . more than 7.5 million people aged 15 to 24 are “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training – are making headlines worldwide .
yet america ’s supreme court has set norms so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . foreign producers , for their part , are accused of an “ unfair ” '' contest far more easily than domestic manufacturers . nor are trade negotiators being discussing eliminating this double norm . indeed , insofar as the standards of domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps an overwhelming majority of firms within the u.s. would be blamed for dumping them . so developing countries worry that attempting to introduce an “ competitive '' within trade negotiations will simply make life even harder .
for emerging-market economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization only in order to catch an even worse case of libraization . facebook is betting that libra will unleash the taurus market . but libra ’s benefits seem as slippery as pisces are comparable . if it does happen , then libra will have complicated these countries through its monetary and exchange-rate policies , and it will demand that we continue to trigger a period of slowing growth and financial instability . if it does , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , and it will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer .
the latter dynamic is playing out now in france , with the “ yellow vest ” protests of recent month . the added cost has not been all that large ( roughly $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but the fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 per gallon , including current taxes ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness is affecting the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the specific dynamics depend on a variety of factors . for starters , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or a no-growth environment where population ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or falling . the immediate cause of the protests was the new fuel tax .
in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever ukraine chooses as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . to divide up the people to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . we now see this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over the lands treated like the “ lost ” ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent elections , however , putin made it clear that he could work with the world ’s neo-imperialist designs . from alexander the great to stalin ’s vicious , variants of that strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor .
what she fails to acknowledge is that america also forces the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt for the rest of the world – currently at roughly 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years . in any case , an active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . skinner interprets this narrowly focused on the need for america ’s ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . indeed , if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp ( of which defense represented 14.8 % in 2017 ) well above its income , and a current-account deficit .
by exploiting plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries have been able to boost their share of global manufacturing activity , job creation , attracting investment , and , to some extent , to kick-start a broader industrialization process . consider , for example , how recent innovations are threatening a export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled much of the developing world ’s development over the last few decades . now , technologies may offer yet another option . but , for firms that seize the opportunity to lower costs by shifting production to the developing world , there has always been a trade-off : offshore production meant with limited capacity to respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand . by investing in “ additive ” manufacturing , a ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , companies could shift their production sites closer to their end-markets .
for instance , joyce , my former paypal , has a spouse who is diehard manchester united fan . every season , she breaks at least one piece of furniture when his team loses . couches are stained with a beer , and kicked as the beasts take their favorite teams . even wives of male watching the play at home acquired other issues to deal with . she transformed her furniture , at least twice since marriage four years ago , for example .
challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hate against the other , of ethnic or religious minorities who were demonized and victimized , of deleuze , and of guattari extended the concept of otherness to vampire . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift toward the “ potential conveyor ” of revolutionary thought ? increasingly , such protagonists have become a focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . the notion that a murderous monster may symbolize a protester or an outcast is so deserving of sympathy , originated in the french philosophers gilles deleuze , and pierre-félix guattari . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in the understanding of homicidal monsters ?
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by a growing desire to stamp out “ impure ” “ fresh thinking , ” to point out the value of a democratic debate . in march , al gore demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up the planet ; policymakers are reluctant to follow through on his advice , and to stop building coal-fired power plants . hansen argues that , “ “ the first action people ” should take is to use the drive for a democratic process . but closing debate simply means the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen proclaimed that when it comes to tackling global warming , the “ democratic process ” does not work .
and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the fallout reflects subsequent growth for the share of female legislators in other countries . the primary reason for the rise of female mps has been the emergence of a quota system by which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are women . the rise of women mps has led not only to the rise of their female cabinet members , but also to a broader range of policies and institutional improvement aimed explicitly at women . the primary reason for the surge in the number of female mps has been the introduction of a quota system by which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are women . according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , an election pressured south korea from 101st through 62nd worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan .
for bingham , the law needs to be accessible , and a insofar as the case can be intelligible , seemingly clear , and predictable . the courts and other formal bodies would be required to offer fair procedures . for bingham , the law must be accessible , and insofar as the potential – intelligible , clear , and predictable – standards . everyone should be governed by law , insulated from the personal discretion of those in power , and legal disputes would be resolved without the prohibitive cost or inordinate lag . furthermore , state power should be reasonably exercised , in good faith ; and for the purposes that it was conferred , by independent courts and judicial review , by law ensuring that the government does not transcend the limits of its authority .
in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has been re-established under marine le pen . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party capitalized on enough power to play a kingmaker ; without its support , the minority liberal government would collapse . it is the extreme right that has benefited most from centrists ’ failure . in france , the national front – which finished second in its 2002 presidential election – has since been revitalized under marine le pen . in finland , the heresy party capitalized on resentment around the eurozone ’s eurozone bailouts to complete the eu ’s close third in april ’s general election . in france , the heretofore that unknown true finn party capitalized on resentment around the eurozone ’s eurozone bailouts to complete the eu ’s close third in april ’s general election .
on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in both exports and imports . but here , the hungarian tail is wagging a german dog . the eu is paying out to turkey in europe , whereas seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should want . german firms are making up many of their money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . the fourth factor is , of course , german business interests .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its major trade partners since the eu decided to incorporate in its co2 emission-control scheme all of flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental arrivals . with china and the united states outraged , china and the united states . in march , chinese airlines delayed the orders to purchase european aircraft that they used to do so . and eu airlines will need to acquire emissions permits to transport their flights ’ ’ co2 emissions . in response , chinese aircraft manufacturer airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in .
i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center at the periphery to be free from europe ’s responsibilities but to participating fully in its opportunities . and , for the record , norway is an important net contributor to the eu budget , the price of its negotiations , despite not being an eu member . but we were never in the doubt that becoming outside europe was an entirely different matter . when the us government looked closely at the risks to london as europe ’s financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case for doing so that it could damage us . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated ; but each had to be negotiated individually .
to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and assessment , which i head , is creating geospatial charts of disease burdens with groundbreaking status . estimates of local disease burdens will be vital to fight afflictions like ebola , checking a rising toll on middle-income countries , and to meeting sustainable-development goals like maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur policy action to improve health if it can yield more detailed data disruptions . policymakers are responsive , first and foremost , to their own constituents , whose unique needs they must meet . it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries , as well as the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional deficiencies in sub-saharan africa .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would need to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would need to rise by as much as 20 % relative to the eurozone average . spain , for example , would still have to reduce its price by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average . from this perspective , crisis-stricken countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union containing competitive countries . the only way to avoid it would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . to be sure , if germany were to exit the common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for southern countries , as a rump europe undergo devaluation ; but crisis-distressed countries ’ fundamental problem would stay as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone .
another issue that risks becoming overlooked by focusing on urgent and immediate financial relief is the coastal community ’s long-term economic needs . such training , coupled with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent sea , would force a highly effective reserve pool , to be deployed when disaster strikes . but perhaps it is time to consider whether this is fair to condemn these communities to a long-term dependence on fishing . one way to bolster india ’s disaster-responses capabilities would be to develop the marine equivalent of the us territorial army , training selected fisherfolk on how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has utterly closed down day-to-day activities in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( rather than serving as emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fisheries .
peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiation . but if one party cares more about a process than about the necessity of peace , something must go wrong . ramallah , the united states should stop pressing ahead with trying to revive a palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best way to achieve a peace deal , a paradox that reflects the colossal gap between the peace process and achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not an invitation to arms , or an appeal for violent uprising .
the maastricht treaties ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational architecture for the eu , and laid the foundation for political institutions that are equal to europe in terms of economic power . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , defense of the west ’s core values , and common economic prosperity . the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , defense of the west ’s great values , and common economic prosperity . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency at the start of 2007 , are unambiguous : periods of reflection , approved by the european commission in 2005 , have finished . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) resulted in rather poor compromise .
but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rolliclicking debates – has been reduced silent . the latest fad is for officials to prosecute libel newspapers , demanding more than $ 1 million . part of the explanation for this has been increased official control , part of it is a declining public interest , and part of it is that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less urgent . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new shops and buildings . after the government grabbed influence over the independent tv networks , ntv , and tv6 , the russian media became vastly duller .
true , the united states is not denmark , either . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous and what americans can learn from them . one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the proportion of a population that is performing productive work in high-value jobs . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give a job of paying a decent minimum wage to sustain healthy , happy life . according to the oecd country ’s employment rankings , the top seven countries worldwide have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now is general reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s growing inequality crisis and what we can do about it , and milton and the rose managing director friedman ’s classic free primary to choose : a personal statement . their case for small-government libertarianism has rested largely on those claims , and has now become largely crumbled because the world turned around , had disagreed with them over how it works . the first claim was that macroeconomic hardship causes the government , not an unstable private market , or , rather , that the shape of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability was straightforward and easy to achieve . considering them collectively , my overwhelming thought is that a friedmans would find their task of justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism much harder today than they did in 1979 . back then , the friedmans made three powerful factual assertions about how the world works – claims that seemed true or perhaps true at the time , but that now seems to be pretty
according to the african union ’s high level panel on illicit flows , chairing former south african president thabo mbeki , africa has lost more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as base-erosion and profit-shifting . second , the g20 must commit to combating tax evasion and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell corporations ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) , used to pump money out of africa . the g20 members should step up the requirements for tax disclosure , prevent the creation of shell companies , intensify efforts to combat money laundering , and establish companies ’ public-owners of corporate ownership . the g20 should now follow through on this commitment , setting a clear schedule for end fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency on such spending from the 2017 onward and ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 .
though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibilities , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to pursue a cross-border environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missing an opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continued the reactor ’s operations ) , no such analysis expects that to take place next year . the snriu will make this critical decision , without any key data on the health and ecological risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . most urgently , the unit two in south ukraine will reach that point to less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . last month , the campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s ’s nuclear-power plants until a cross-border assessment is introduced . three of ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear-power units currently operating beyond their design lifetime , with nine others set to reach an end their intended lifetime within the next five years .
at the business level , more than 700 companies with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate obligations , according to the us department of commerce . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the un climate fund , a five-year initiative to engage with the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures . at the business level , more than 700 companies with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate pledges , according to the us , implying entrepreneurial coalition . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for urban food production .
already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . as proponents of asian values have argued , all human rights – civil and political as much as social and economic – must be strengthened . to succeed in restoring a robust growth path , east asia needs to deliver justice beyond individual human-rights abuses . but this has been no recipe for restoring stability and growth . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash .
by contrast , a virtuous chinese saving a large share of their incomes was castigated by western economists for their inability to see that their obligation to spend for humanity . a key theoretical point in the shift to a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of insecurity as a risk . whereas the guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a moral issue , hedging against risk is a purely technical issue . the principal theoretical point in the shift to a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of insecurity as a risk . the key theoretical point in life , the destination of one ’s immortal soul , nudges one toward morality , was .
as a result , italy and the european union are headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority has forced another election later this month . having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement , or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-left center-right party , bersani will rely on senators ’ willingness to endorse specific measures . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . but that approach is both inefficient and unstable – and dangerous . the cyprus crisis , threatening to bring the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone , might make the situation even more difficult to manage .
some of the conditions that will be imposed then have since been banned by the world trade organization . but , just a couple of years ago , america ’s auto industry pushed hard for a trade-deal that would have given it minimal market share of america ’s exports to south korea . for example , in the 1980s , america went into such deals with a foreign car , a micro-chip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool producers . trump is likely to dust off these tools further . if trump wants to bar manufacturing from moving overseas and encourage investment from abroad , we might soon see us companies pressured to agree on a voluntary basis to outsourcing restrictions and localization demands .
in short , it ’s america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the global average that owes to world climate justice , not the other way around . america ’s population today amounts to just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . according to the world resources institute data , america accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . and america ’s per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country , by far . the paris accord does not have victimize america ; on the contrary , america has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order .
and yet a roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came as the market re-opened on monday that followed the largest two-day throughout recorded since 2008 . that rise was preceded by the loss of nearly one-third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july . for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( indeed , the economy grew at nearly 10 % ) , when the stock market lost half its value between 2001 and 2005 , or brazil , where the market then recovered ( only to trend down dramatically after the 2008 financial crisis ) . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market may be able to rise , or falling , by double digits , without triggering a broader economic crash . since then , china ’s stock market has been the global laggard – that is , until last year , when it became the best-performing in the world since 2008 .
i was trying to explain that his trademark , en même temps ( there is also the credo of someone suspended in fear and shaking up before the unsolvable and terrifying mystery of double nature , the physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of christ ’s tormented body . but very soon we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america itself . on the one hand , it is to be found in the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates planting in charlottesville , virginia , in august , to break some black and jewish high heads . the conversation has , once again , turned to macron . far from reflecting careful deliberation over the ambiguous choice , “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ at in the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and shiitousness ” before the unsolvable and terrifying mystique of double nature , the physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected , of christ ’s tormented body .
in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others engaged in trade protectionism , fled major budget deficits , overheated their economies allowed the inflation of brazil to rise , and eventually suffering a currency crisis . argentines , giving the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or the brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . still , there can be no disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . santiago – now that populists come to power in the west , a struggle over the intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . writers like john judis are arguing that nineteenth-century americans invented political populism , with their anti-elitist stance , and inflammatory rhetoric .
israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine , which equates it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter . but it has been the recent statement by us secretary of defense robert gates , who has been particularly shocking toward israelis . what is remarkable is that it has lasted for so long . political contexts matter , israelis will argue . he has expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , supposedly , the iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel .
the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling for gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . a decision reached in less than 24 hours , leaving many ivorians flabbergasted . one day after the outcome was announced , the country ’s constitutional council – headed by gbagbo , close ally paul yao n’dre , annulled the results from the north ’s seven departments – denounced gbagbo with the election with 51 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , received 45.9 % . abidjan , on december 2 , côte d’ivoire , was the independent electoral commission ( cei ) , declared opposition leader alassane ouattara the country ’s winner ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote .
fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in 1959 that resulted in the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s ’s ’s government has pursued many proactive measures , even adopting a “ serf liberation day , ” to defend its record in tibet during the last 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama and his supporters . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . littered with a host of extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 might well have shown an even more dramatic and unforeseeable since the end of 2008 . in contrast to the previous year , when the haste home for the lunar new year was stoked by freak storms , millions of migrant workers already return to their rural homes .
but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks to itself . we need to make responsible choices in order to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is what i am determined to deliver on them . success also requires taking bold steps to tear up trade barriers and open up the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . dealing with the deficit required hard choices , from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age to controlling public-sector wages . a government living within its means is an indispensable condition of securing an economy for the long term , yet insufficient .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely that . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as was the case with the sad experience of most developing countries in recent decades . building on these economies ’ scale , industrial and modern service industries is a critical element of successful diversification . second , while pushing the technology frontier is the critical element in industrial growth , what matters for developing countries is reshaping production and exports patterns , particularly by moving resources into higher-than-data activities . the key to achieving this is the capacity to diversify domestic manufacturing via new activities , strengthen economic linkages within the country , and create new domestic technological capabilities .
the oed etymology ignores the nebulous origins of the term , which can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . the oxford english dictionary provides as their earliest reference to its current usage , an academic article , published in 1972 . it was a diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy areas ( such as when , for example , negotiating on financial and security matters ) . but , in a rather different sense , the word was used . today , few know where the term “ made in ” globalization originated .
the credible threat of war has been vital to achieving this extraordinary feat . but precisely because it is so extraordinary to see how implementation of those threats by going out of war can make any sense at all . without its determination , backed by a highly credible display of military force and skillful diplomacy , the us military programs in iraq would not now be vulnerable to scrutiny more intensely than has applied to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . its best “ grave consequences ” to which the un security council warned against failing to fulfill its responsibilities would be an even sharper effort through continuous scrutiny of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders . yet , precisely because inspections in iraq have been exposed as having lied and cheated this would be an acclaim about the effectiveness of inspections , scarcely a justification for military reprisals .
though their vision of a “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and , therefore , unacceptably high levels of democratic governments , identifying and target behavior – something that is illegal everywhere . major states would have an interest in curtailing the damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . limiting all interdependencies would be impossible , but one might begin with cyber crime and cyber-terrorism far more easily . of course , cyber technology is very different from that of nuclear technologies , especially because non-governmental actors can exploit it far more easily . limiting all interdependencies would be impossible , but one could begin with cyber crime and cyber-terrorism .
indeed , with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , and with planning processes unable to enforce alternative efficient discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocs in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with massive overcapacity in heavy industries . to be sure , this would produce squandered investment . but , as some chinese policymakers react to it , all of the growth processes involve waste : the nineteenth-century railroads in britain and america have created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they have spurred economic transformation . the bulk of the debt burden is held within the state-owned system , for example , by state-owned companies ( soes ) state-owned banks ; and by the government simply could write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to repay their old debts .
moreover , namibia ’s government wisely understands that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of many . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians the most able out of the country ’s resources and are rethinking investment laws and resiting of mining contracts in order to ensure that this is the case . as president hage geingob has put it , newspapers often say things that he does n’t like . the authorities know that , unless namibia ’s natural wealth funds invest in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource exhaustion will leave the country poorer , not richer . transparency is critical to this process , whereby the government has strong supportive press is so important .
the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be very much open to such an agenda . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european mirkós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and that this would naturally be its top priority . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly re-elected president , nicos anastasiades , might be open to such an agenda . nevertheless , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence , and into anastasiades of history , provides the breathing space for optimism . it is not unimaginable that this type of cooperation could extend to include other neighbors around the levant .
but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asked , “ what is europe doing ? ” the commission ’s own internal culture of craousness and red tape amounts to a constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to talk about . it is no structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , and much of the commission ’s work is the relentless grind of eu regulation and reregulation . for reasons now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents have to be drawn from past or present prime ministers . yet the head of the commission is challenged to be europe ’s dynamic public face .
but it will soon need to follow the small-country model , like that of switzerland or norway . just as scotland is confronting the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it . after all , independence would enable scotland to develop policies that are more in line with other successful small economies , not least by retaining eu membership . but it does not follow that the uk ensures such security , particularly now that it is well on track to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . britain has chosen to exit the eu because it has an outsized view of itself .
as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ normal ” innovations yields big payoffs , end up investing less in overall capital than they did in the past . second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the world ’s second-largest economy outlook also disregards its increasingly winner-take-all nature . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and the shadow-banking system attracts heightened attention , too many companies become anxious . today , successful innovations are much less about financing , and far more about finding a “ how-centric ” app . third , while companies recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are also humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all nature .
stockholm – it has been one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . had the coup was not stymied in its first 48 hours , turkey probably would have fallen into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which would have extend far beyond its borders . but the putschists have failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed a coup ’s fate . last year ’s attempted coup was anything if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighters have bombed the turkish parliament ; 249 have died while living .
seoul – once again , tensions are rising across asia over north korea ’s missile program . contrary to its past “ missile surprise ” rocket launches , north korea ’s government this time notified international agencies in advance that it would launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and 8 . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly denounced the launch as a “ provocative act ” and the violation of the united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , just five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons test . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but what happens afterward . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military ’s implications for the missile launch .
it has been more than a decade since the eu initiated its eastern partnership , which has established a more credible framework for partnership for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . and it has just held the first round of a presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasion . that initiative is worth recalling , in part , a response to the russian invasion of georgia the preceding summer , when the kremlin sought to disband that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent arab states . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome .
without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to crisis management , the continent will be ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new ( and old ) new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to win power in their power , imperiling the entire project of peaceful integration under the rule of law . a chilean steps policy is no longer sufficient . but the brics decide that europe needs a multitude of crises . it will be followed either by their sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or by the cataclysm that rocks the eu to its core and bring disaster to the uk . the brexit referendum will point the way that the uk and the eu must address .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf may return to its core crisis-management business . the first , and probably simplest , challenge is to re-shore up the imf ’s public image . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hand full of three important challenges . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn ’s sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth , too , is more prosaic .
in other words , helicopter money is not an interest-free loan to the government ; it is a gift . that eventual need to reduce the monetary base is an implicit claim on the central bank ’s ’s ’s ’s holdings of assets ; so the increase is rightly viewed as a liability for its balance sheet . but , under a debt-financed fiscal stimulus , the central bank never has to reverse the rise in the monetary base . as holders of a distributed money supply have no claim on a central bank , a rise in the monetary base should be viewed not as a responsibility , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . with the monetary base in place , however , the central bank never has to reverse the rise in the monetary base .
her party accused serra of orchestrating the attack , and in revenge , her party -- the liberal front -- threw its support behind ciro gomes . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within the striking distance of lula , who had declined to 33 % . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-index suddenly topped nigeria ’s low and short-lived credits to international trade dried up , began rethinking the face of the election . gomes used the tv time available to his three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but most credit her rise to the polls for the superb performance of his second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar , recovering from breast cancer . gomes used that television time available to his three-party labor alliance in late june to bring massive repercussions , but most credit her rise to the polls to superb her second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar , who were recovering from a breast cancer .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . claremont , california , though the rapid escalation at hong kong seem terrifying enough , things might be around to get far worse . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on a ex-soviet colony at all costs . it should brace itself with a sinister bill .
and yet , despite these challenges , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . moreover , regional tensions , including escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue of the west sahara , have been hampering integration in the maghreb , an absolute imperative to unlocking prosperity in north africa . these shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional amendment , which transferred power from a monarch to a parliament , and law-enforcement reforms like aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . it has become a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . it has become something of a worldwide green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewable-energy generation to 52 % by 2030 .
after all , there is little reason to believe that either the us fiscal compact or the proposed “ “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . to use eurobonds as a mechanism for eliminating the big sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the other 60 % – of-gdp margin where countries will have the most trouble resisting the temptation . to be sure , america ’s federal government has never bailed out a state , with 49 of which ( all vermont ) either having laws or a constitutional provision restricting deficit spending . after all , there is little reason to believe that either the us fiscal compact or the proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate the large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the 60 % – of-gdp margin where countries will face the most difficulties resisting the temptation . for
nonetheless , following amendments to the indian patents act , india still had some safeguards to avoid the type of excesses that prominent pharmaceutical companies had routinely exited in america and europe . according to section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ the mere discovery of a new form of … assets , or … use for the familiar substance , or the mere use of a familiar process ” is not eligible for any patent at all , unless it “ results ” in a new product , or employs at least one new reactant . india , for instance , abides by a more stringent definition of what constitutes an invention to prevent “ a evergreening ” : the process of extending a patent ’s life by taking secondary patents on marginal improvements to the initial drug . for indian drug makers , the production of generic versions of highly patented drugs would require license , and such licenses rarely can be taken as long as ever due . but , as the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , every world trade organization has to recognize one another ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s pharmaceutical patents .
but bolsonaro does not want to keep amazon chaste ; simply wants to be among those exploiting it . according to brazil ’s national institute for space research , deforestation in brazil , for example , has led to 88 % annual expansion of agribusiness , mainly cattle ranching , and illegal logging . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that , “ brazil is like a virgin that every abroad cuts him off . ” the foreign players who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of the rain forest – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only in order to take advantage of it in the future . according to brazil ’s national institute for space research , deforestation in brazil has led , for example , to the expansion of agribusiness , particularly the livestock ranching , and illegal logging .
most obviously , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea , which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) , already possesses an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and seems to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped ballistic missile capable of reaching the u.s. mainland . kim appears utterly willing to subject the north korean people to the privations of any sort with which to remain in power . to be sure , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . in short : an all-or-nothing military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . trump might have started to recognize that intensifying pressure on north korea does not exclude red tape with kim .
the third argument against imposing provisions on anti-manipulation in the tpp is that it would imperil america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . a well designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede us monetary independence . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – the purchase and sale of a foreign currency – is at hand . but this reflects a profound misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term nominal interest rates that involve a central bank buying and selling short-term government debt .
after all , it would not be amusing if a charities dedicated to famine relief celebrated their own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in this case would be paramount , because it would be the only realistic reason for charity to exist . yet a joke would not work unless another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge holds value independent of any practical use exists . on this view , science also has a rather different , higher purpose : understanding the natural world would be . so it is entertaining to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether of experimental physics , math , or of cosmology , is superfluous . so , although its potential usefulness is the reason that governments devote so much money to scientific research , people truly expect more of their academic degrees than they do .
the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization have emphasized the need to put human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak . yet abortion politics has intervened because republican lawmakers , leading the us congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made funding conditional on recipient countries ’ anti-abortion policies . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for , and responded to , the zika threat . addressing the problem with , among other things , the predominant approach to containing the zika virus , namely , that saddles women with excessive responsibility , while giving them too little power , does not fall on everyone . the un ’s position has not helped , either .
at long last , such countries ’ demographic fortunes would be used for some time to come to terms with their development needs . such an approach would have to be communicated both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , around the world , as well as to other arab countries . and start-up loans from europe would have made it far easier to aspire to one fortune back home . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to deliver it with oil and gas and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . if they become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption .
both the spirit and the indispensable financial institutions must be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – the force that joseph schumpeter famously argued that sixty years have been the engine of capitalist prosperity – to unleash it . edmund phelps of columbia university argue that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism ” – which he defines as the combination of the entrepreneurial spirit and the world ’s financial institutions to channel it . but this is not what the reams their economies of scale nowadays . to be sure , tomorrow may be problematic about what sounds like it : europe and japan will confront the grave problems when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but this is not what the precise description of slow-growing countries nowadays .
peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . institutions are being torn down , property rights are being challenged , and an accidental and ever-more corrupt form of redistribution efforts is under way . lula and his party are so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policy that capital has already started fleeing -- despite the months of elections . in argentina , one bumbling house president succeeds in the next . the popularity of lula ignacia da silva and his team leadership in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is ready to reject traditional governments .
in its recent african energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy consumption will rise by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population nearly doubling , less energy per person will be available . at the same time , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source , in oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even with a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without heavy subsidies ; no one would , no doubt , cut their links to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . still , western activists apparently believe that a world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with inadequate , irregular electricity supplies . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person annually , less than what amounts to a single two-watt led permanently lit .
with relatively sluggish growth , corporate profitability – upon which returns to the shadow banking system ’s returns are based – is low and falling . where , then , will the high returns from the financial sector provided by the shadow banking system come from ? in 2013 , talk turned to the danger of a resurgent housing bubble and a collapse in the shadow banking system , consisting mainly of wealth-management firms and trusts companies . in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a collapse in china ’s options for housing stock market , as well as chain-reaction defaults on underground credit networks and local-government financing platforms . by 2013 , talk had morphed into the danger of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse in the shadow banking system , consisting primarily of wealth-management firms and trusts companies .
but , while industry faces the threat of bloated gas prices from around the world , its worries closer to home are the eu ’s own brand of abundance and national energy regulation . by any reckoning , this is an important industry that should not be suffering from over-regulation . europe ’s industries are afflicted by similar problems . refining and petrochemical sector supplying the eu with a substantial share of its fuels is also an important source of tax revenues . the refining and distribution of fuels for fuels contributes some € 240 billion annually to treasury coffers .
the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values protecting minorities , and it has welcomed the poor and downtrodden . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for politely sending the uk more to create the systemic problems that will endure once trump has returned to the life of his long-term cohesion and fundamental values . the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has been pushing back against trump . yet draining europe ’s poison will require far more than scolding , americans who have praying for trump ’s premature departure . indeed , some eu leaders may well be forgiven for thinking that immigration threatens to create the systemic problems that will endure long after trump has returned to life of golf courses and bankruptcy courts .
if the world is too complicated and erratic for either markets or governments to achieve social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed in such a way that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives and vice versa . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem to be paralyzing , and the current political mood certainly does seem to reflect this fact . but recognizing fallibility may actually be empowering , as it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . moreover , policymakers need to reconsider much of the ideological super-structure erected on market fundamentalist assumptions . if the world is to be characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories , rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality must always be revised .
likewise , it would be difficult , but not impossible , to reduce the incentives created by almost every country ’s fiscal regimes for corporate leverage . a more effective approach would employ a wider range of instruments , including debt restructuring . nor can austerity itself suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments , at 5 % of gdp , in spain , that citizens are likely to resist them , just as the greeks did . a more effective approach would employ a wider range of tools , including debt restructuring . governments must also work to reduce existing debt , with the missed global demand that it contributes .
much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the pre-crisis boom . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors that they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated by the idea that the world will fare better when selling their enterprise to the highest bidder . and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to a services . but silicon valley ceos are no robin hood , either . third , inequitable pay and stimulus structures are bad for business .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has won him a fatwa for the apostasy from the merceqabs head imam of the bradford mosque . one might say that no less than a labour leader could be expected with a bright future in churchill ’s own country . but one must still follow through and recognize that khan has not yielded on such issues to the facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel . moreover , he has never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or highly expressing his dismay at the rising number of niqabs and hijabs now seen in london ’s streets to prevent men , notes , from speaking up against them . for europeans , this is a necessary principle .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payment directive ( psd2 ) have been decisive in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time been running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them to structure their standards . aggregators may then present a customer with an integrated view of their finances and offering add-on services . even now , lists of contributors to the fsb working show that the european commission , and key regulators in europe and north america have not been involved . perhaps the time has come to assess the financial-stability risks of open-banking was in the consultation period before the directive has passed . in europe , regulatory changes like that of second-payment services directive ( psd2 ) have been crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them to structure themselves through standards .
by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by converting timber to paper or furniture , something that finland also does . but all wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . a classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should export timber , which finland has done just that . some ideas are even worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in a way that emphasizes secondary issues , say , the availability of raw materials , and blinds societies to more promising opportunities that might lie elsewhere . consider finland , an nordic country endowed with many trees for its small population .
this more profound transformation , in contrast to the low-hanging fruit eyed today by many us politicians , offers the only viable route to climate safety ( that is , staying below 2ºc threshold ) . deep decarbonization demands not from natural gas and fuel-efficient cars , but from zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged by a zero-carbon electricity grid . we need to get to around 50 grams per kilowatt-hour by 2050 , rather than to 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . by pursuing coal to gas or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we run the risk of throwing ourselves into the high-carbon trap . we need to reach out to zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , yet zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged by a zero-carbon electricity grid .
but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even the shove ) the conglomerates toward export-oriented industries that may have grown beyond asean ’s borders , industries in which competition will encourage the discipline they lack as a result of dominating local markets . for their part , the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with support , rather than obstruction , by its conglomerates . ( indeed , south korea ’s big economic debate nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are suppressing innovation by keeping their start-up competitors out of challenging them . ) rather than becoming agents of change , they frequently impede change . to succeed , conglomerates need governments ’ support and embrace .
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? working groups might be created to try to shape a common narrative . what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? could it really be viewed , as many of the sunni arabs who assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ? in fact , what does it truly define its own interests in those countries ?
domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and demands for gdp growth , is obliged to follow a “ green ” economy . because china will be by far the most important market in the future , determining not only what the us produces and consume , but how . consider the shift from the traditional auto industry to the electric transport sector . despite european illusions about the contrary , this will be decided in china , not the west . domestically , china would be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and demanding gdp growth , is being forced to pursue a “ green ” economy .
a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work and might even be counter-productive , because private investors might well demand even higher returns , because a growing ecb share of gdp would be regarded as senior , augmenting their risk . first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must state the clear intention to reduce sovereign interest rates to a sustainable level , which is at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain at 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on which spain borrowed almost identical rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , oddly , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation rate , thereby confusing real and nominal rates and more rapid gdp growth . for countries following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and to announce how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s widespread argument that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring regulations over discretionary discretion , remains very influential . there were also proponents of a flexible inflation-targeting fed that held that it was fine to place some weight on actual gdp growth during the short run , so long as there was an obvious longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that , if the definition of it had been stretched too far , it would have lost its relevance . inflation-targeting targeting was best known as the rule mandating that central banks would dictate – and try their best attain – the target range for an annual rate of changing the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins included targeting the price level instead of the inflation rate , as well as targeting core inflation ( cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) .
in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply has already reduced the share of labor income in gdp . firms in the advanced economies are now cutting jobs , owing to inadequate final demand , which has led to excess capacity and growing uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens the final demand further , because it depresses labor income and increases inequality . the result is that free markets do not generate sufficient final demand . because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else with labor income and demand , what is individually rational for one firm is destructive in the aggregate .
but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs is very different from that of those it replaces . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted foreign competition ; much of the competition facing local economies does not come from abroad ; indeed , many more jobs are not lost in the industries directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , the taa is not a solution to this kind of ailment . nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by blockbuster video bankruptcy , borders ’ books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can only turn to russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . for the first time , ukrainians shed their little-noticed complex standing toward russians overranked . president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike of democracy . following this spectacular russian default , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” ” ” ” looks anachronistic and facing the threat of a true democracy in its own neighbor , russia . yanukovych stands for a truly “ oligarchic ” of the sort that putin defeated at home , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations .
fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , who are largely uninterested in returning subsistence farming , is well positioned to fill the larger value-added jobs that emerge in the agriculture sector and beyond . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . to be sure , agricultural development can face significant economy-wide pitfalls , which must be navigated carefully . another potential pitfall in agricultural development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water use , and water pollution . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies .
such critics worry that doing so will make it harder to persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes apparent that their collective efforts alone are insufficient , and that may even enable some countries to stick to irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima deal ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the longstanding division of the world into just two sorts of countries , both developed and developing . countries have too latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by the common “ top-down ” rules that were imposed by the treaty . for many of the deal ’s critics , particularly those within the environmental movement , those compromises made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” deal . it almost surely will not have to come down .
indeed , ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting some young people as well . nevertheless , recent polls show that a majority of voters mistrust the incumbent government and the ruling party . ahn ’s most apparent merits are his personal history in overcoming severe challenges and his modest manner of behavior . her refusal to strike it alone is perhaps the primary reason why she continues to lead various opinion polls . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned a pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the main backer of the city-states ’ new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by inflaming wide showing that he could become a presidential candidate .
some people will balk at the idea of imposing a price tag on biodiversity ; viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly also agree that preventing human deaths and misery , while providing food , water , and even microbes ; that we also rely on them for our very survival . dhaka – we humans do not just share the planet with a wide range of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them for our very survival . can we define the economic value of protecting the natural world ? the reality is that there simply are not enough resources that could do everything .
this shifting landscape calls for bold action on several fronts . · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risks materialize . and , elsewhere in the region , tiny pacific island states in particular , vulnerability to the impact of climate change is rising . in many emerging and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transport . and , elsewhere in the region as a whole , small pacific island nation in particular , vulnerability to the impacts of climate change could be rising .
the brics concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural . for starters , they are generally united in their frustrations with – but not in its proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship any brics country has was with the united states . if the brics countries are to be jell as the pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic goals . it wishes to remain asia ’s sole country with permanent seats – an approach that places it at odds with india .
and , third , there was “ deconstructionism ” of post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ will to truth the ” ( michel foucault ) , introducing truth “ at quotation marks ” ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating sign after his referent ( louis usser ) counterparts , and miring the apparent in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it to borromean ( jacques lacan ) , the robust truth has probably caused us to lose face with the coura , irreversible aspects . first , an almost infinite amount of speech is establishing free digital democracy . first , an almost infinite amount of speech is made free by digital democracy . i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and galia ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) on the following sequence of events :
solna , sweden , elite sports , and doping have long been deeply intertwined . but a damning report by the global anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released soon before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro has brought it to the forefront of public perception . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice , and to salvage elite sports . reaching the elite level in sports requires a tremendous amount of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , few succeed ; but those who do can enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history , one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the late days of world war i. the continuation of this violent pattern appears almost certain , because the region remains incapable of resolving internal conflicts on its own or creating anything like a resilient framework for peace . berlin , with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon become a thing of the past . but isis ’s defeat and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even end to the syrian tragedy . instead , it remains stuck somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in afghanistan .
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations dominating higher investment . why are we inclined to under-invest in the resilience of our economies ’ economies ’ key systems ? that appears to be an obvious mistake : abundant expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second - and far more plausible explanation , which is especially a electricity grid ? even swift responses are more effective if key networks and systems , particularly the electricity grid , are resilient .
right before acting , india ’s federal reserve bank raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation ; and china ’s central bank now indicates that it may raise interest rates further . throughout the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth have triggered a fearful sell-off in the markets . in brazil , interest rates remain close to 11 % . in october , the people ’s bank of china ( pbc ) , responding to twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively , – the first increases since 2007 . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction .
producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adapt consistently to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets . less fragmented industries also lobby better . they have little if any say over domestic and international regulation . larger firms are more adept at pooling resources for research and development , which is the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . traditionally , contracts made in china scattered and fiercely competitive .
countries can exit a pegged exchange rate smoothly only when confidence is in the us economy , by stimulating the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate in as much as it does to weaken . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of iran ’s tourist , asking for a currency peg to dublin , and telling us , “ “ “ well , ” sir , if i ’d navigated that transition smoothly just today . that may have been true of china ’s once-; it is no longer true today . but the literature on the “ exit ” strategies that result from an iranian tourist – on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate – makes clear that the moment when china might have navigated that transition uneasily with it now has passed . no matter : the country would have been better off with a more flexible exchange rate , eliminating one-way bets on speculators , and acting like an economic shock absorber .
a strong version of the so-called volcker rule ( intended to force us-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . the us senate bill ’s provision of derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing those restrictions , clearly lined up on the side of big banks . but the american government would be reining in things . there are many ways to curbing the big banks ’ excesses in the first place . the legislation was not aimed at prohibiting derivatives , but only at appeasing the implicit government guarantees , subsidizing taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which is hardly a natural or inescapable byproduct of lending .
unfortunately , the most recent political incident involving democracy-promotion activities by american ngos has cooled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . if finalized , an imf program could unleash additional us aid packages through the world bank and other international donors . egypt ’s economy faces continued risk , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . even with the availability of external financing , egyptian leaders need to look for ways to engage the private sector in revitalizing the country ’s economies . if aid arrives , egypt could start addressing some of its financing challenges ; but it still needs a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth .
being physically present at work means direct contact with other sharp and creative thinking . of course , those in favor of working at home cite not only the cost and time of commuting times , but the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , perhaps – and the steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are why salespeople still call on eu customers to use skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face encounters ; i am on the company ’s board ) lives in ways that twitter and facebook seldom do . interestingly , i heard that point at the wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where several hundred people have walked thousands of miles to meet in order to share ideas and strengthen working relationships . cafeteria ( now more inviting and frequented with the advent of a free food ) or halls of an plug & play accelerator , proximity issues .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has much interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime augur all-out war .
if trade in global goods truly peaked relative to global gdp , it will hit the poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . at the near future , 3d printing might further reduce the need to ship goods across long distances . but globalization itself may not be in retreat . the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy , and the speed with which the marketplace is assumed to be greater weight in such decision-making . while worldwide trade in goods has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , digital information flows have surged : cross-border bandwidth uses have grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation around the world .
in 2002 , china signed the framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) ( asean ) . compared to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on multilateral bargaining rounds . xi and his apparent circle will not want to dismantle the global trading system . in other respects , however , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from our understanding of globalization . in 2002 , china signed the framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have had an immediate impact , whereas the benefits from overseas investment , for example , take years to become apparent . with his 20-year track record accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than most to be trusted by voters when he says that he acts in his long-term interest . in singh ’s congress , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” ” programs . all politicians in democracies think in the short run ; few have their time horizons that extend far beyond the next election . under the congress , the credit for the most far-reaching such program may be in place , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every rural family 100 days of paid work .
the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . that means that , like the lending delivered by italian and spanish banks over the past few months , most of the new cash would be loaned locally to safe households and large incumbents . so , for example , if they used the cash to continue financing the private sector , they would ensure that lending go to creditworthy customers . banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements and rebuild their balance sheets in order to support financial health , which implies using the ecb money in ways that allow them to meet that objective most effectively . that will allow bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require .
turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions are effectively protected from human rights for all of its citizens . but symbolic measures , while important , are not sufficient to bring about real progress . turkey has an important role to play in its region , and the world , one that is undermined by its continuing denial of the armenian genocide . in doing so , it would improve its standing both in europe and beyond . its steadfast approach to the genocide is incoherent in its effort to cultivate its reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failure of such institutional arrangements in the past . yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin american fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . for this reason , fdi needs to be encouraged separately from domestic investment and exports . for this reason , fdi needs to be encouraged by domestic investment and exports . furthermore , foreign investors do not want to deal with diplomats or civil servants .
phasing out coal during a year of latent overproduction may even be a matter for time . companies with a large fossil-fuel portfolio , like coal , will soon face severe uncertainties associated with stranded assets , and investors can change their risk-management assessments accordingly . third , the world needs better ways to assess ecological risks . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other materials like iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , precious earth elements , and lithium – the type of mineral fertilizers that will be required in large quantities to meet the sdgs – targets for a global hunger eradication . companies with large portfolios of fossil-fuel reserves , like coal , may soon confront severe uncertainties linked to stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessment accordingly .
in mathematical terms , it gives a amplitude , but not the phases – that is , that is , the stages in a oscillatory motion , without which atomic positions can not be fixed . he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partially oriented dna samples . the following year , he gave excellent hemoglobin crystals and soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . but the observable diffraction pattern -- that of vienna arrived in cambridge in cambridge in 1935 to work as graduating student by bernal . max perutz , the chemistry graduate of vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as graduating from bernal student .
the text , mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s constitution of the so-called “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november , and the conclusions reached last november ’s by the convention ’s working groups . the key word here is the most fundamental . the endgame to establish the european union ’s final shape is under way . it began with the publication of the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of the draft of former sixteen articles of the “ treaty to establish a constitution for europe . ” the key word here is mostly the case .
driven by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience forced electrical outages , costing them more than 15 % of annual sales , on average . similarly , while every company needs data for investment and operational decision-making , official forecasts in emerging markets do not always have a reliable impact , and often skewed political agendas . for example , in pakistan , a 2008 census scheduled to be delayed by nine years and beset by problems when it finally took place . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap is transforming totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms are paying more to make entrepreneurship work .
in crimea and chechnya , even some of the most elementary media protections are nonexistent . under putin , russia today has less press freedom and more reporters , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the eruption of the soviet union ’s implosion in 1991 . the bbc media service ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in ukraine in 2016 . each of these outlets was distinguished by its coverage of sensitive stories , from conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad in the top independent weekly newspaper , novye kolesa high corruption .
the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s stated goal of limiting the rise in the global mean temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels , ideally – to just 1.5 º celsius above preindustrial levels , we need to cut emissions dramatically . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for further progress and continued collaboration at home are high . one more promising recent initiative is the leadership coalition of the carbon pricing ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to place a value on carbon dioxide emissions . earlier this month , thousands of people gathered for the un framework convention on climate change in bonn , germany , to boast global ambition in combating climate change . today , countries , citizens and a growing number of companies around the world are finally taking action .
the scale of such an operation would be immense , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risks . at that point , the single thing still stands between the eurozone and the us would be the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and fund the bank run . there is nothing stopping spanish and italian depositors from wiring their local bank to one in spain , norway , or the new york times . once greece continues , runs up on bank deposits is likely to follow in spain and italy . but it could , in principle , step in , if northern europe allowed .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as in other countries around the region , frequently relied on a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died later this month . yes , lee ’s system allowed him to remain in power for 31 years , most importantly using the civilian – not criminal – courts to harry his opponents . but , more important , lee also relied on elements of the democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy wins over patronage . here , it appears clear that unmo ’s political interests have been permitted to dictate that the country ’s ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no true democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling apparent and convicted on evidence that no genuinely independent judiciary would accept . yet , more important , lee has relied on elements of the democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy wins over patronage .
trump ’s critics argue that he is playing into disaffected voters ’ basest instincts , spewing hatred on foreigners ( particularly mexicans ) against them , mistrust of bankers ( or anyone with a college degree , for that matter ) , and can not yet gain from electing a president whose father is black . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world . are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” as senator john mccain , maybe unwisely called them ? now , all of this may be just as true . trump , in the comedian donald trump ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” ” or , at least , the id of large numbers of mostly white , mostly small-town americans .
the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is expected to shrink by about 0.4 % this year . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and continues to show no sign of improvement . in europe , too , the picture is mixed . for finland , britain , italy , spain , and italy , below-average growth rates are forecast to suffer . the former boom countries , greece , ireland , and spain , remain in recession , will continue to deflate their gdps .
after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention the authorities like britain ’s national health service ( npr ) . healthy living now means carrying bottled water with the us , sipping at every hour , trying to drink our daily quota to make sure that we stay hydrated and healthy . healthy living now means performing trash with the us , sipping at every time you try to drink our daily quota for ensuring that we stay hydrated , too . sure , drinking this is not a comfortable habit ; but powerade does seem to offer this sage attorney : “ “ you might be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid ” if you manage to build your fluid intake gradually . indeed , often we drink without being inundated by any means , but that is how it should really be : as sushnverage maker gatorade reminds us , your brain might know a lot , but do n’t know when your body is thirsty .
can the united states still allow a suburban lifestyle with sprawling homes in far-flung communities that require long-distance automobile commutes ? they are also facing enormous uncertainties . companies are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , facing unprecedented risk sanctions on their borrowing costs . what kinds of power plants are likely to be acceptable in the future ? will they be permitted to emit carbon dioxide as it has in the past ?
though past summits have produced little more than talking points , the outlook for action is better this time around , given the need for talks to take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has felt deeply felt . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders convene in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape the migration governance system with proactive protection policies that enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . at present , the alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles the challenge . weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a global governance system have also weakened the intergovernmental agency ’ ability to act with authority on the name of the most vulnerable . these include independent groups like the refugees international ( ir ) , as well as the médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
more than a generation ago , intel ’s co founder , gordon moore , observed that improvements in the semiconductor fabrication permits a doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip every eighteen months . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue over the next few decades . the scale of the investment required to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” has grown exponentially along with the density of transistors and circuits , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , and engineers see no immediate barriers that will upend the process anytime soon . globally , there are now the world ’s 300 million computers , with processing power averaging a few hundred million instructions per second -- the so-called “ four _ three _ three , ” rising ratio of raw , automated computational power , the average annual growth rate of 56 % ! by the late 1950s , intel ’s co founder , gordon moore , had observed that improvements in semiconductor fabrication enabled a doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip every eighteen months .
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students with health ambassadors for their families and their cronies , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge the gaps in the developing world . xinjiang means “ “ new frontier , ” ” and right now , at the cutting edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . but neither the corporations nor the governments can do it alone . these multidimensional , scalable interventions , help to bridge gaps in the developing world .
and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of negotiations between abbas and israeli premier ehud olmert . finally , in late 1988 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace . in late 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the us state department to start a substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . now , it is obama ’s turn and should push for a united nations security council resolution that establishes new parameters for a future peace accord and replaces united nations security council resolution 242 that dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . fortunately , he still has time , and many previous american presidents have set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house .
similarly , cho ’s history of mental illness was widely discussed . indeed , on the other side of the world , australian newspapers mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months immediately following the firing , compared to just one mention in the previous 12 months . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even by american standards , coverage of media continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . loughner firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention as it did the court-ordered assessment of its mental competency . in that sense , an american may well be exporting the stigma on the rest of the world .
for europe , this represents a unique opportunity to support the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . it is a pivotal front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resource endowments , and growth potential across a wide range of sectors . more important , successful reform in ukraine generates positive developments in russia . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( on average ) since 2006 , making it europe ’s poorest country .
rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering their competitiveness through austerity and reform . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi european union parties exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . realigning relative prices would require an internal devaluation that could lead to social and political instability in the poorer countries . but this strategy carries serious risks that eventually turn out to be unworkable . at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar , given the eurozone ’s lack of a federalized state .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy via the standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove inadequate . economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and where governments regulate governments should move beyond these first two items on a checklist basis . should governments either try to boost monetary velocity through bond sale , thereby generating short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers either directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ?
the uk ’s ministers largely responsible for the talks , a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambitions than their competence , has so far managed to secure agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 brexit deadline . but even that deal is not set in stone , because it depends on whether the negotiators ultimately can agree on what to do about the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland , once the uk leaves the eu in a customs union . there is no example elsewhere in the world in which that is false . it also includes the promise of leaving the eu in the single market and the customs union . you can be in a borderless customs union or outside a customs union .
but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability , “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” has been far too narrow . a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric inflation target of 2 % , within a 1.5-2.5 % band , over a longer time horizon . the ecb needs a more realistic – and flexible – mandate . to be sure , the eurozone is deeply fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , unifying safe asset , or tools for macroeconomic stabilization . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate probably should still be centered on price stability .
the israel-palestine conflict has lasted far too long . yet we have a desire for the middle east , one that , while perhaps not bringing about peace , can establish one of the preconditions for peace : goodwill . so too many hopes vanished amid the bitter failures of so many rounds of negotiations . when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east , virtually a new year ’s tradition of tradition ­ , one needs caution as well . israel and palestine should jointly offer , and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup .
so the real question is how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and a army that can be trusted to maintain law in the same way as order . notwithstanding the courage of many iraqis who join either the army or the police , nobody should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . much of the ground must be covered to get anywhere in the region . notwithstanding the bravery of many iraqis who join either the military or the police force , none should be surprised if some have the motives behind saying they are less than pure . much of the ground must be subject to anywhere close .
the difference between the madrid demonstrations and the warsaw pact suggests that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld meant . but the moods in both countries , as well as their perceptions of europe and their roles in it , contrast starkly . indeed , unemployment close to 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) and annual gdp growth close to 1 % ( spain ’s gdp growth rate is negative ) . given the widespread european crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . of course , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland into a collapsing spain .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is not an example of british “ black humor produced by i love . ” currently , though , that same can not be said of the uk . given the uk ’s own economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave the eu with a gaping lackey . it is not “ “ monty python ” ’s flying circus , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” “ yes , prime minister , ” ” or “ fawlty towers ” ” ; it is only boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their disastrous political realities show .
but the international community , the palestinians , and the arabs all bear responsibility as much , albeit at different levels . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories remains in direct contrast to what the preamble to united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ inadmissible taking the land by force . ” israel is most at the fault of that failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians are remembered either with nakbeh , or with “ catastrophe ” in mind , their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but , for both sides , as with external powers , the events of 1948 and what followed , the occupation since the 1967 remaining lands of historic palestine represents a tragic failure .
tantalizingly , they tell us that doing this would create “ a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of major shocks , ” ” although they do not explain how that market is structured around them . cutting uncertainty might augment or even be superior to having a fiscal stimulus program to address the root cause of an unwillingness to spend . after all , the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale adequate to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private venture insurers . furthermore , recession insurance might , in contrast to fiscal policy , impose no cost on governments , for as long as it stimulates confidence , then the risk being insured against is avoidable . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks may condition credit lines to firms on their purchases of recession insurance , which might help credit markets function better , then the risk being insured against the current crisis is avoidable .
second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments as part of the rescue regime arranged by supranational bodies , the european commission , and the european central bank as well , in cooperation with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . the greek saga shows that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . second , eliminating imbalances is national governments ’ responsibility under the control of a rescue regime arranged by supranational authorities , the european commission , and the european central bank to work together with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . imbalances are not solely the product of irresponsible policies .
as a result , its trade surplus has continued to decline , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing concern about a chinese slowdown . moreover , chinese exports are sometimes set to rise to the face of a chinese slump at freefall from its ports . china ’s downturn appears to be sudden ; after all , its exports were rising at double-digit rates each month , until earlier this year . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true condition has long been obscured , but now has come under stricter regulation of activities like the speculative trading of renminbi masquerading as trading payments . china ’s downturn appears inevitable ; after all , its exports have been soaring at double-digit rates each month , until may .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to newly articulated patterns of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a ’s is just the first step on a long road . as chinese firms invest overseas , as mine are nowadays in latin america , they have responsibilities not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies ’ sake , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . those are not mutually exclusive goals , so long as business leaders adhere to newly articulated patterns of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . clear rights and obligations must therefore be carefully worked out in the early stages of investment , something that was all but absent .
and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces . as the world comes to see during obama ’s visit to the us , japan is back and thriving . its members of the self-defense forces ( sdf ) displayed exemplary cooperation with america and australian armed forces during the great east japan earthquake in 2011 , earning deep appreciation and respect everywhere they have been deployed , including in haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . working alongside countries with which we share common values and interests , the us will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and seas . to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility for appeasement , which supports global prosperity and stability .
israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion has warned , may become the jewish state , may become a democratic state and may become a state occupying the whole of israel ; but that may no longer be all three . how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leadership , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , remains left for any credible negotiating capacity unless talks begin until , as israel insists , retreat on their minimal condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears completely from that agenda . how long can this arab league position be sustained with the peace talks go nowhere ? for all that , israel downplays its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important deal : the full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement .
i am convinced that russia ’s agony all of this will come down to politics . we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and genuine control of public resources . but , even with a favorable global market environment , we have failed to manage the poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . nor was it the crisis that gave rise to corruption , affecting officialdom on every level , or that causing russia to lose its democratic dynamic . we russians driven along with oil and gas , forgetting that those resources would not last forever .
but allowing greece to default , and still remaining in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts financed by the ecb , with no intention of recompiling . the first , and more desirable , is for the ecb to judge realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so stop providing ela funds into its banking system . fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would have been fatally undermined . but allowing greece to default , and still remaining in the eurozone , would not be an option : it would signal to other eurozone countries that they can amass massive debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of being repaid . there are , in my judgment , only two viable options left there .
by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and flooring slabs , construction companies can slash costs and lift productivity , as workers acquire experience with repetitive tasks . this brings us to our second key lever to expand affordable housing : a more cohesive and efficient construction industry . by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and flooring slabs , construction companies can cut costs and raise productivity , because workers acquire repetitive tasks . as it stands , the housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , hindered by its ability to take advantage of economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same methods used 50 years ago . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as utilities , say , walls , and flooring slabs , built offsite .
if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective solution , one that stops 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . that makes sense : of the 266,000 women who die from cervical cancer every year , more than 85 % are in developing countries . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly called for hpv vaccines . this may be one reason why cancer experts , government leaders , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives have met just a few weeks ago in addis ababa for a tenth stopped cervical , breast , and prostate cancer in africa ’s conference .
washington , dc – ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . anti-corruption scandals have already reached the top of the brazilian society . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and business leaders have been brought to justice and imprisonment .
nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether health pressures ultimately will trigger the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism , with its very large slice of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . i am not arguing for healthcare capitalism , but warning that support will become fragile , far more so than in the case of , say , globalization nowadays . most countries rely far too heavily on command and control , and thus provide far too little incentive for patients and their providers to make efficient choices . some societies might decide that it is better to be red in the first place than dead term . i am not arguing for healthcare capitalism , but making warnings that support will become fragile , far more so than what is known as globalization nowadays .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his sentiment that james clerk maxwell ’s equations , which depicts the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , the “ existence of their own ” fundamentals , that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we are getting more out of them than they have originally been mired in them . more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discovery of the new laws of physics , declared , “ you can recognize the truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” wishful thinking could never have delivered working iphones , pictures of pluto , or “ atomic bombs ” from , say , an atomic bomb . not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ musicality ” in a thought sphere . similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might backfire because two contending groups are stuck in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , did the government choose a predictably disastrous course of action , at such great human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . by delaying , they provide information to the other groups on their willingness to withstand pain .
by moving its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation , or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth , the us would set itself in a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . here , then , is where the fed stepped in . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better , more secure world for america . rather than see the 30 % euro appreciation that follows from the ecb ’s current path toward monetary policy , german exporters would be shout for measures to avoid america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” ” finally bringing about moderate “ shock up the north rather than one in which it is reliant on it today . a world in which the us has a proven track record of honoring the trust required to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a far better world for an american than one where it is not trusted .
but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different type of engagement . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in its continued need of multilateral engagement , and this has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . and a group of 47 republican senators has wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next us congress can not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . indeed , us multilateral leadership demands not only clearer and bolder rules ; it also demonstrate a willingness to bear the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold the “ responsibility to protect ” civilian populations , or by taking concrete steps to degrade – and eventually exclude – the nuclear arsenals .
to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down because losing power would probably mean long prison terms at the united nations on drugs or at the hague for crimes against humanity . while they argue for the redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless bolivarian cause , ” they reject international assistance , force venezuelans either to emigrate or to the suffer ( and , in many cases , will die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . that demands a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election prior to the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution . caracas , venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have ruined their country . the destruction of venezuela urgently needs to be stopped if its viability as a state and society must be reformed .
indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization has spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . but the effectiveness of such investments will depend on the sequence and rate of their deployment , and on how skillfully tailored to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs and aspirations . four interrelated issues must be addressed . indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization has spurred rapid urbanization in the coastal provinces . so far , china has largely taken the “ dream ” approach of urbanization : building it and coming ” with it .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , worsening his relations with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and in the recent crisis , all he has earned were a halt to the mocking loudspeaker management . so long as china is really distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim react to that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or pragmatically by becoming more flexible ? this should be obvious to kim by now that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country . that is no easy question to respond .
only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has evolved within his own country . europe can not afford a ethnic clash ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , europe ’s countries are badly in need of more immigrants . the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people . the statistics are perplexed and sometimes contradictory , but the european union ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million can grow by another 100 million immigrants by mid-century . the need to address this outcome in france and throughout europe has become more fundamental than ever , because rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged migrants conforms the rise of far-right political parties .
this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on canals that determines whether or not an scientist will have a successful career , developing countries will need to invest massively in their own data-infrastructure to place domestic researchers at a more competitive disadvantage . as a result , the scale of the research subjects that many countries have been able to make is limited , and they need to struggle to keep scientific talent . countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack the academic excellence , but because english-language journals refer to the shots . non-english academic journals simply do not command equal attention in the sciences .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank annual meeting , malpass needs to look beyond these worries head-on . he should be judged not by his past or his connection with the trump administration , but by his delivery .
its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would rebalance supply currently falls short of its actual interest rate . that seems paradoxical , because interest rates reach close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real rate of interest , that is , the gap between market rates and inflation . in fact , there are essentially two competing explanations . first , larry summers ’s hypothesis has suggested this .
by contrast , cameroon , which egypt defeated in the final , featured just a single player from the domestic club , and 20 from european clubs . for their part , the african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during the critical years of the league play . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans watching that game , but egypt played far better and deserves to be won . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that bring together globalization ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . for their part , the african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunity during the critical league play .
by contrast , as henry kissinger famously argued , victors in world war i could neither have dissuaded the defeated germany , nor provide it with the incentive to embrace the treaty of versailles . the habsburg empire ’s genius , prince klemens von metternich , in framing the new international order following the napoleonic wars , was that he did not nudge france into a corner . by contrast , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is most needed . though metternich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , he had restored france ’s prewar frontiers . berlin , the world ’s task in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling , is all but easier to counter an impoverished and effectively defeated country .
and , because they had been separated by the transition from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential that two recessions were identified . america had a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . yet the us economy did indeed grow in the interim , only barely sufficient to contemplate them in distinct recessions . many economists believe that it was one major episode , and that probably was the proper course of thinking about it in a broader historical context . sometimes dating to a recession is the title of judgment itself .
during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population or 2.3 billion people have been subjected to some form of american sanctions . in fact , large majorities in sanctions are imposed by large countries against small countries . of the 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds were imposed by the united states by the unilateral sanctions enacted by the united nations . in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average annual rate of around seven per year . currently , the u.s. holds close to 8,000 sanctions worldwide , with iran by far its biggest state goal .
in the same tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , he reiterated the phony charge that china should be devaluing its currency in order to gain the export advantage of america . his knowledge of international economics is either non-existent or tens of years from now . in reality , china now seems to be hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s value in the face of capital flight . worse , by announcing that america is about to withdraw from the trans-pacific partnership – intended , at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows according to the western rules-based order – trump is also abandoning an american policy that might check china ’s surging influence in asia . in fact , trump is apparently antagonizing china for no good reasons .
china ’s interest in regional and global institutions appears designed mostly to enhance its economy and its geopolitical clout , rather than help set the rules and create broadly beneficial arrangements . what we do know is that no alternative great power is prepared and able to step in and assume what was america ’s role . india is preoccupied with the challenge of economic development , and is tied to its problematic relations with pakistan . likewise , russia is a country with a narrowly-rooted economy , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . china is a frequently mentioned candidate , but its leadership is mostly focused on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular strife .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to just 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . as a result , inflation plummeted in june to around 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics has begun to rein in official data appears to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has been tightening monetary policy . the newly-released figures may have dispelled worries about a hard landing for china , but have nonetheless prompted many to argue that it must stimulate china further to guarantee 8 % annual growth . slowing china ’s growth rate is to some extent a reflection of the government ’s success ’s efforts to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as of other formal policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a powerful case for upholding a woman ’s personal freedoms and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to place her health or wellbeing at risk by carrying out an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to term . yet , faced with how rife with misinformation and muddied by misplaced arguments , policy debates often go on nowhere unless they frame abortion first and foremost as a health issue .
without access to education , that generation – which will soon be the majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticed by promises of employment , resources , and a better life , merely realizing that they are unprepared to survive there and keep their children growing up in the slum . the world 's lasting perception as a village exacerbates slum dwelling ’ plight , keeping them out of the global development agenda . but for how long will a majority serve a minority of people ? at least half of those living in urban slums are below 20 years old .
all of these disasters , and many more continue to be envisioned , are possible , and many are even intolerable . the problem is that the principle can not be applied consistently , at least in some cases . disasters hastening action , no matter the cost ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcaneruptions , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; human over-populations and extinction of the non-human ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and widening iceland ; the cycle of clean air and water ; farms and fish . the precautionary principle prescribes action without cost , regardless of cost , to prevent all . a world in which we live is a small backyard of well-explored territory surrounded by the dim , dark forest of catastrophe .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . milan – for much of the post-world war ii period – has focused on containing unemployment . but employment is just one facet of welfare . the great job losses from the great depression , reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , seoul started economic growth , had a lasting impact on at least two generations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . by contrast , sino-american rivalry involves two rival military alliances , with each other and the rest of the world . the cold war of the twentieth century couched two competing military alliances against one another .
this was done at the behest of the united states , which at that time was embroiled in the vietnam war and required , for understandable security reasons , its use of diego garcia as its air and naval base . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they have been deposited and left over to fend for themselves . between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of all living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) , and that partitioned from mauritius in its age of independence . the chagossians have been shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they have been deposited and left to fend for itself . the manner in which the inhabitants of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and dumped their lands into the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed the second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan assuming office after his party won the general election on an anti-corruption slogan . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing and able to work with the two technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically significant financial institutions immediately , even when it is insolvent and determined in resolution . in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or supply-side policies , the major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of neoclassical , unadulterled cyclical downturns . owing partly to the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency collateralized funding only to at least five eligible institutions , something of the problem when only your four largest banks are in trouble , and must reaffirm that counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . but the challenge of setting up whether a troubled entity is viable is best left for once the financial order had restored it . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed counter-cyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , the major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of neoclassical , non-adulterated cyclical downturns .
at the same time , if greece does not fully adjust its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be likely to acquiesce in the risk of contagion to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect , from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . a default by greece , after all , could have equal global systemic consequences following the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . a default by greece , after all , could have equal global systemic effects to the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 .
shared a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , this region comprises many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . indeed , human rights groups have long urged the necessity of expanding pakistan ’s constitution ’s constitution to the tribal assembly , where najib parties have broad backing . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pressure from washington ushered in a u-turn from pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who has driven pakistan ’s covert intervention in the war against the end of afghanistan . throughout his rule , najib politics was growing along with the number of madrassahs and fighters trained and equipped by the pakistani and american intelligence agencies . these religious parties , a coalition of which now heads provincial government in the northwestern frontier province , were politically marginalized until given pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert intervention in the war against the soviets ’ occupation of afghanistan .
it is being tacitly accepted that in the future , as in the past , the world would include a wide variety of economic systems and regimes . throughout its recent history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . with america losing the interest of the chief prop of us neo-liberal policies has been pulled away . mainstream us politicians may still nod reverently when global free markets are invoked , but in practice the world seems to be reverting to older , more durable models . so history was once more triumph over ideology .
chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and used it as a cash-cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from a company ’s budget . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and used it as a cash-cow here ; many of his social programs were funded directly from a firm ’s bill . the first few years of his rule came to dominate his fight to obtain control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , rosneft . upon reasserting political control in may 2003 , chávez fired a total of 40 % of pdvsa ’s employees . starved of cash , pdvsa was pressured to cut back on the maintenance and expansion that increased the number of accidents and scarce production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear installations is yet another possibility . moreover , while a preemptive strike against iran ’s nuclear installations would delay defusing iran ’s nuclear installations , it might not stop the regime from rebuilding , and possibly create the conditions that create troubles for the regime ’s domestic opponents . an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities is yet another possibility . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will or should remain a distinct possibility , given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . iran might also be able to interfere with oil deals , leading to a spike in prices and have been delivering another blow to america and the global economic recovery .
and with northern ireland ’s republican party headed by sinn fein , demanding a vote to reunify with the south , the uk ’s very existence is now squarely on the agenda . lord north is remembered for the loss of the british union with america . there is one way to lessen its uncertainty and risk : on the part of the eea , the government should announce quickly that it negotiates with the eu on the basis of norway ’s option for eea membership . and with northern ireland ’s republican party headed by sinn fein , demanding a vote to reunify with the eu in the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . whereas conservatives like scotland to france without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland against britain .
assad ’s war aims have been reduced to avoiding a decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography is not well suited to an orderly partition along sectarian lines . assad ’s tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many of his members of the alawite minority will be fighting for their very survival . the rise of the islamic state has been borrowing the government ’s support for the government ’s claims that syria risks being absorbed by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s final days are probably not pretty .
this is the narrative that plagues all of society , the middle class no less than the wealthy . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer a part of society , and thus have little need of government , then it is not because that belief does fit into objective reality . there is little reason to expect that the super-rich behave less selfishly than any other group . but it is not that much of their self-interest , which stands in the way of enhancing equality and promoting social inclusion . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our era portrays markets as the self-standing entity that runs on our own fuels .
when disorder has multiple causes , then there should be multiple treatments . finally , central banks should establish a higher inflation target to give them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a prospective slowdown . but , while this may explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates at an all-time low for the past three years , it can not address why capital expenditures have so far been insufficient to prevent raising rates for more than three decades . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for the shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks and enhanced regulation of nonbank financial institutions to prevent them from excessive risk-taking . here , the only explanation still stands out is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , to less capital-intensive activities like services .
once again , exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of law and democratic institutions ; but behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine from its previous presidential election and again on criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is receiving strength . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a “ western partner ” — imposing a g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin-cabal .
democratic latin american limps sideways because it can not run ahead on its own . throughout the hemisphere , many people are living with out-stretched hands . across the region , the politicians who writer octavio paz once referred to “ philanthropic ogres ” create eu clients , instead of citizens , people who expect the eu to ask for them . far too many entry barriers are being borne by the poor , innovative , and without access to credit . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom are getting just enough to survive in the eu .
inclusiveness has to do with income disparities and growth across diverse regions and among social groups . but this is not what these indexes are actually measuring . instead , indexes include variables , what they refer to as “ policy space ” that create either competitiveness or inclusive growth . two examples from this are the wef 's global competitiveness index and its new inclusive growth and development index . competitiveness , for example , needs to do with the capacity to raise market share without sacrificing margin calls or lowering wages , something reflecting superior productivity .
whether one considered the dutch welfare state humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch had reacted with their past excesses with a series of policies designed to support a return to labor in the formal labor market . so people seldom returned to work after losing or leaving a job , or did so in an underground economy with its underpaying cash payments . from the 1960s and 1970s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” there were so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfers payments that focused on everyone from the truly needy to artists being able to sell their labor – that after-tax wages were often barely above the benefits .
yet significant segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america slips into recession in the months to come , trump will be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is not based only on fear of being mistaken once again ; many seem to be resigned to such an outcome , and some may even hope for it . of course , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but , in their apparent embrace of trump ’s reelection , large parts of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s ’s financial and industrial elites , when hitler came to power in the 1930s . at that point , comparisons with the us inevitably appear .
for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise its minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , 7,530 had won ( $ 6.70 per hour , and up from around 55 % before its current level in 2020 . to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , by providing youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . governments must take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that gains are shared much more equally and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have been intent on tackling inequality with progressive redistributive policies . market mechanisms alone are inadequate to achieve this .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights for their helmets in order to force a tank gunboat direct their fire on egyptians only in front of them . but paratroopers , flown by helicopter gunships abruptly dropping an egyptian gun crews that never had a chance in a hand-to-hand fight . the egyptian defenses blocked the central highways across sinai with a fortified box that containing powerful artillery and more than 100 tanks , fronted by three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen , and anchored on sand dunes and israeli tanks firing directly at every turn . still , egyptian artillery had been superior , and was supposed to have at least silenced the tanks firing at their trench lines . sharon had his soldiers ascended to the central interstate highway across sinai with an enriched box containing powerful artillery and more than 100 tanks , fronted by the three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at every point .
over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , owing partly to demands that people in particular positions of care , such as gendered power workers , have a first-aid certification . such certifications are even more relevant in the developing world , given mental-health professionals ’ limited affordability . pilot work in rural india demonstrates that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to resource-constrained communities . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid classes . requiring people , such as high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers to gain a mental-health first-aid certificate would significantly enhance participation , thereby boosting support for those struggling with mental-health problems .
the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even when drugs exist to treat them raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , because it creates patent protections as a barrier to essential medicines that they make to the world ’s poor . some high-quality manufacturers of generic drugs , such as the cipla of india , have offered to provide these drugs at prices close to the cost of their production . but how can the benefits of the global patent system be realized to provide incentives that foster innovation and new discoveries be coupled with the assurance that the poor are gaining access to the medicines that they so desperately need ? the costs to manufacture these drugs , however , fall far short of the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – around $ 500 a year for some three-drug combinations used to treat aids treatment . in response to this offer ( and to get bad publicity ) , merck , abbott labs , and bristol myers squibb , three big patent-holding companies , announced that their willingness to supply an african market at “ zero profits ” – ie , about $ 500 per patient per year for aids drugs they produce .
next year , ’s european parliament elections are likely to reveal even more about the potential for such political restructuring . yet , what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success were to helps drive italy forward a wider political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ? he appears to have restructured french politics in the process , as we know it . having never held an elected office , macron has created a new russian-centered party with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . that reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing home who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her native liberia that year , but also help waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe were at an end to the mother ’s death . karwah was a hero who met the tragic end of the day . one year ago , she died from complications in childbirth , a murderer that had lasted almost twice the entire ebola epidemic in their country of the first place . as a result , childbirth was a danger both for women and newborns around the course of human history .
unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that might cost their citizens their jobs . the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor represents a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . most live outside of refugee camps , and many work – for the most part illegally . an estimated two million syrians are living in turkey , and over one million live in jordan .
but the language used by those wars ’ neoconservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the diffusion of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were doubtless complex . now , when american policymakers speak of “ liberty , ” ” the ” people see the bombing campaigns , the chambers of torture , and the constant threat of lethal drones . one reason why america ’s elected obama in 2008 was that america ’s rhetoric of american idealism led again to the death and displacement of millions . the problem with obama is rooted in the contradictory nature of his administration .
this was followed by russian news reports that the us , china , and india , will conduct trilateral military exercises , named “ indira 2005 , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” on equal scale before that year ’s end . but that is because bush has not begun addressing an issue that is looming larger in the region : the changing face of security in asia in view of china ’s rising economic and military might . in the past , such a mix of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises could not be clarified as simple , one-off ” ” ” affairs with little resonance . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little public news by design . this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever maritime joint military exercise .
anticipatory city planning – underpinned by realistic demographic forecasts , patient registries , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-learning networks , needs action . emerging-market governments need to tackle critical issues stemming from weak , inclusive coordination within and among , among , national , and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . proven systems and reform should be shared among emerging-market cities , with successful new innovations and ideas being tailored to local conditions . they should think of the reforms that involve giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibilities that they need to address health-care and health-care outcomes . this involves new , affordable technologies , like the low-cost , mobile telephony for community-health workers .
shanghai – tight media control over the unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like far more open-minded coverage of the devastating sichuan province earthquake . that question stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . much to the consternation of western media , the chinese people worldwide have lashed out against its supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt . throngs of chinese expatriates and students have taken to the streets , protesting the prejudice that they perceived in western media reports . is this a change in china ’s media strategy or merely changing short-term tactics ?
any excess glucose has stimulated the pancreas to release insulin that conveyed glucose glucose into peripheral fat tissues , and that has also caused the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . so , too , their livers have stayed healthy , not at all . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( the polymers of glucose ) , which were also sent to the liver , via an glycolytic pathway , to break down for energy . as a result , our forebears stayed healthy . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( the polymers of the glucose ) , to deliver the liver , through an glycolytic pathway , and broken up for energy .
sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population ; but it is home to more than 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has merely become less visible . across africa , the disease is estimated to have shrunk the average national growth rate of 2-4 percentage points per year . there are around 2.4 million new infections annually , and the world ’s 34 million lives with hiv/aids , who require treatment for tb . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we have already won the battle against hiv/aids .
leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector . the uk would have to adopt the kind of satellite state that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . even the us has declared that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the united kingdom . remaining in the single market does , however , come at a cost , one that british voters might not try to support . the uk would have to accept the kind of satellite status left by the eu , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that would take no part in shaping it .
for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be even more nerwracking . the second is the elections , also likely to be held in 2014 , of a new afghan president , a process that needs to allow the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are handing the country over to a legitimate government . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly affect the withdrawal process and its eventual outcome . the first is the management of the afghan transition , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . as america ’s military leaves , it will enter another period of political and strategic uncertainty after nearly a half-century of brinkmanship and civil war .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . new york , watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly walk into predictable , avoidable national disaster is a rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no post-brexit relationship will inflict immense damage on their countries .
after all , such changes are best served by imposing stifling sanctions or using military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as they have in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement with outside powers . indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift to a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might prove accurate only in the short term . this is no longer an option , either . normalization of relations with the us is key to liberalization in cuba . in fact , even if the us did not try to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longstanding , and already much-diminished , backing by the castro government .
it is well known that weidmann dislikes italy when central banks , particularly the european central bank , purchase sovereign bonds . but , while vigilance seems to be in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating genuine currency wars in the process is slim . though countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis started , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries can force policymakers to protect home markets while attempting to gain external competitiveness . in recent years , much policy activity has focused directly or indirectly on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . but , asserting that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry the risk of “ much stronger exchange-rate politicizing ” exchange rates misses the mark .
today , america is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now it is still likely to be a third ( after only china and india ) . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow at 49 % over the next four decades . moreover , although studies suggest that the short term , directly measurable economic gains at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants can make substantial contributions to particular economic sectors . a 1 % increase in the number of immigrant college graduates results in a 6 % increase in patents per capita this year . not only is us immigration relevant to economic power ; given that almost all developed countries are aging and face the burdens of providing older generations , it might help to lessen the sharpness of the policy problem .
but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of a timeworn “ kitchen table ” approach to chinese economic policymaking , myriad proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely linked at best , and that are often buffeted by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed , and it will require three key changes for china ’s economic-policy framework . in fact , only two of the six major economic tasks that the work conference is identifying fit neatly with a third plenum ’s strategic agenda . likewise , an emphasis on markets ’ “ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of attaining a market-based shift to a consumer-society . the call for an augmented social security is consistent with the third plenum ’s proposal for allocating 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care .
even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will drag down us energy , commodity , and food prices into global markets , all of which are important factors behind the current elevated european inflation rate . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . a fundamental economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is sinking headlong into a severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes about this . it defies the economic logic to think that the global economy , including europe , will slip away from its consequences . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others and allow an economic slowdown to work for him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on changing that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could once again become an menace to the continent . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly fell into line politically , permitting putin to use poland ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that can not bully militarily , owing to nato , have wooed back politically , enabling putin to take advantage of the country ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . poles have been paying a steep price . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the eu ’s highest prices – by far .
in fact , biopiracy is rare – so rare that it can be addressed directly . but , though accusations of biopiracy can have emotional appeal , impartial analysis has indicated that they have little factual basis . instead , the world has created a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and shapes intellectual property . the seed treaty also brought oversight of its parties and secretariat the 15 research institutes that comprise the consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , the influential global research partnership . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and creating intellectual property .
but , with the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad having grown up , support for the us president has waned considerably , with even state-run media denouncing ahmadinejad ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and last term fast approaching , it seems unlikely that the disgraced , unpopular president bush is willing to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he had long promoted mashai as his successor , but was curried by khamenei ’s illegal effort , and has now put his stop at mashai ’s candidacy completely . at the same time , he has reduced the resources that are channeled toward particular religious institutions , helped those within his inner circle to establish private banks through easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now publicly criticize his economic and political agenda .
under monti ’s leadership , reforms were finally initiated , and markets were calmed . as the economist marco fortis points out , the italian family ’s wealth still stands , if not for long , second to none in europe . in order to enhance the credibility of his government ’s finances , monti ’s government substantially increased taxes , mostly on real estate , while preserving an already record-high income-tax rate . the tax plan stressed that italy , like japan before it , was a country of both public debt and private wealth . beyond rising international credibility , two major changes to italy ’s political landscape shaped italy ’s electoral campaign .
prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a deterrent . one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn , ­ – including for me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister , is a futility , in all but a miniscule minority of cases seeking to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to be made possible , just as an privacy zone in our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining relationships that matter most to the us . it does n’t undo the original damage , and typically compounds it with further publicity . media outlets are never more enthusiastic about free speech than they see it reddening , with rage or humiliation displayed by those in positions of power .
she also recognizes that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while hardly noticing a “ wins ” ” ” ” ” ” ” “ no deal . moreover , though may has stuck in a “ camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any possible fallout from the brexit negotiations . clearly , there is no form of brexit or post-brexit britain that satisfies both groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as soon as possible . she wants to break out before voters realized that the leave campaign sold them a false bill of goods , including the promise that they could keep all the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without letting free movement of labor .
data-collection efforts should also include targeting mental health . according to the global burden of disease study , health-risk factors explain at least 50 % of preventable and treatable deaths aged 50 and above ; for young people , the figure drops to about 26 % . among other things , such surveys should focus on creating a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , like alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behavior , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . more studies are needed to inform health policy and planning adequately . to complement this effort , we also need to invest to improve our understanding of how these risk factors are affected by the need to do so .
but talk of regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter politics . only a politician with the support of major constituencies can hope for some renewal of political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate whom the military might supports . thus , in a long conversation with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . pakistan ’s days are a troubled country , politically as well as economically . “ there is a feeling of despondency in pakistan . ”
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable long-term growth in ways that say , an authoritarian china is not . the european union provides one example of how long-term binding commitments can work . there are at least two paths to addressing this problem in a liberal-democratic context . there are at least two ways of addressing this problem head-on . that way , the more forward-thinking legislation that have been debated and enacted will have time to take charge , lest the risk that it will simply be thrown away by consequential governance .
at the wef in incheon , the nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi called for a mass popular movement demanding that education prominently on every politician ’s agenda running for elections , at all levels of government . consequently , for the sdgs to become operational , education must be reversed , with new financing provided by donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists being forced to mobilize . incheon ’s declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public expenditure to education . this begins with the political will and the setting of priorities . for the sdgs to become operational , education must be reversed .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it needs to act to contain inflation ; but its insistence on dollar peg ties their hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates enough . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , has exploded less than 52 % in the last year , which points to an annual inflation rate hit 30 % . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % per year , 10 % less than the inflation rate , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . instead , they have reverted to strict reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thus to a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some mid-size banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems . true , rationing is always worse than a market in the past .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime , and a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution , once before , because neither conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its standing would become more complicated , even in iraq , despite its shia majority . developments in syria , iran , with its last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a major role as well . one can only hope that , given the seriousness of the situation , this route to failure would be closed off . falling president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , then facing the united front of arab states backed by turkey , the us , and , in some ways , israel .
insofar as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ “ “ the conventional wisdom ” is that europe has come and gone . nor is the american political scientist andrew moravcsik making the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the us that can “ exert global influence across the full spectrum ” from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ ‘ soft ’ to ‘ soft ’ power . insofar as the term maintains any meaning , the world is bipolar and will likely remain so for the foreseeable future . the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict by multiple committees may be frustrating and lacks drama ; but it is increasingly relevant for too many issues in a networked , interdependent world . its lack of vision , divisions , obsessive care about legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and the sclerotic economy runs counter to the united states more dominant even than roh … but the problem is our outdated understanding of power .
while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is by any means not at all clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , had repeatedly said in public settings that would not declare his preference among the candidate . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said that , “ there were some rumors that i support a special candidate to run for the presidential election . ” tehran – the iranians who will go to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . but i have one vote , and i would not determine a particular candidate , because the people themselves should choose their candidates based on their knowledge .
the republican party has only a very small majority in the senate , where a filibuster requires a three-fifths majority to pass through most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block the republican tax agenda . likewise , a shift to a territorial tax system will raise taxable income , particularly in the short run , because us firms repatriate some of the existing overseas money stock . while a net tax change might widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will generate rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will swing back toward surplus . but that will be offset by limits on personal-tax deductions and exclusions , and lower personal-income tax rates will boost taxable incomes as individuals raise earnings and offset shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash .
addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu requires an effective blue – or a green-card policy for economic – with an overall immigration target . and policymakers must not wait to deal with the next migration crisis before introducing the it scheme . the eu must also revitalize its operation sophia initiative to counter refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to deal with economic migrants , and similarly asylum-seekers . combining them has brought its asylum system close to collapse ; separating it would help to ensure that those in fear of lives can receive a fair hearing where their rights are protected .
but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crises of 1997 were responsible for large government deficits . in both cases , efforts to defend a fixed exchange rate against capital-flow reversals were an important factor , as was true of turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . will the fed push for a gradual reduction of qe bring about more emerging-market trouble this year ? will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring about more emerging-market trouble this year ? emerging-market bulls point to the fact that most major middle-income countries substantially lowered their public-debt ratios this year ?
already , many people in their twenties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week in life . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies enable older people to work longer hours and allow everyone to work for fewer hours . one option is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours , and an average worklife expectancy that extends up to age 70 , and to even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . such reform could take place over several decades , without slowing economic growth or declining prosperity . at the same time , younger people long for a lifetime of educational , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children .
prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he seems unlikely to try to do so . denmark ’s government has done just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public around the idea of joining the euro . “ bouncing out britain into the eu is simply impossible . ” british public opinion is now so suspect , to the eu in general , and to europe in particular , that a referendum could not have won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . it is that commitment by the us government is now bound .
while the bush administration remains skeptical about the science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting measures to cut co2 emissions . a recent report by the bipartisan domestic commission on energy policy exemplifies what has been a new political coalition . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb oil imports over the long term , such measures require major changes in the transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete . more important , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond governments ’ regulation . midstream of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach nearly three-fold their pre-industrial levels in 2100 .
at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communication skills that would be similarly decisive for a successful career . people in these fields are ultimately bought and sold by corporate managers as much as they are by people in their tech fields . an important point for those students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain deep understandings rather than rote memorization , of subjects that they study to fulfill the role of true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to be pursuing . achieving this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds exciting and engaging , whether that is financing or physiology . hardly anyone is making it all the way to reach a top in a business world .
in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds are identifying with organized religion . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies , about 56 million are out of reach . but abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often restricted . in every year , 25 % of all pregnancies are finished with about 56 million . moreover , in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties ; in their twenties , they are already mothers , while close to two-thirds identify with organized religion .
but one should n’t expect too much from a tough ecb stance . the second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers probably wo n’t be able to demand higher nominal wages , to understand that this would merely lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . the ecb should not delude itself to think that a small interest-rate hike will be enough . if and when wage pressures materialize , the ecb , to remain true to its word , might be forced to raise interest rates far more than it now expects . this argument is unmeaningless ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining .
megaupload allowed its 180 million registered users to upload and retrieve movies , tv shows and music , and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) was on display at its mansion near auckland , where he retained his rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s lawyer , for his part , argued that megaupload was merely providing distribution for his subscribers ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ files ; and had no control of what they were in store . bills had been written at the urging of hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries arguing that copyrighted on the internet cost to america ’s 100,000 jobs . but the megaupload did offer cash rewards to the users who uploaded dotcom , which turned out to be popular with other users . just last month , the united states national office regarded laws intended to curtail internet piracy .
indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect , and the designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design the master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of the aesthetics that has been a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sporting events into an visible testament to their fitness and a mandate to govern . yet , both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are , of course , the last thing china ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims a country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a “ harmonious development . ” moscow – when the opening ceremony by the beijing olympic games begins in just a few days – viewers will be presented to a minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch .
but it has also made the topic less relevant and reduced its legitimacy and credibility . if anything , the economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . economists are no longer perceived by many in the public to question the right questions , or by looking for ways to answer them with their integrity . inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely . to restore credibility requires making economics more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . and that imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . and this imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . the united states is reckoning with a profoundly unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . in short , this amounts to a critical time for germany and europe to offer vision , stability , and global leadership .
in keeping with china ’s recent effort to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the concept of an historic but dynamic culture at its best . a “ bird ’s nest ” stadium became the creation of a multinational design team by herzog & de meuron , with suggestions made by the visual artist ai weiwei . other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army troops , one would be hard-pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime , or its founder , mao zedong . equally significant was china ’s projection as a nascent leader of a new international cultural order . many artists involved in establishing the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun dun won primarily from the west .
my own research , which included thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns , is to help them do what they already do on their own . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal saving groups , ” the ” network of like-minded women , paying dues to build a shared resource pool . one of the most potent ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is through the promotion of financial autonomy . this money can then be attracted to any number of items , such as small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs .
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative global government , but the fact that the g8 ’s days now seem to be numbered . president putin ’s behavior at the summit makes clear what he thinks about the europeans ; not too much . so the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle . indeed , europeans should have understood that this viewpoint spreads all the world , particularly toward the other side of the atlantic . politically and economically , we russians and india are associated more strongly with themselves than some european g8 members .
though the eu claims that it will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought about by the epas , as negotiated , will probably be concentrated on a small number of farm products and excluded from the least-developed countries . in most areas , the epas will indeed harm intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some of the short-run losses . some argue that the problem is more about timing , because losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the possible benefits brought by increased eu access will take longer to emerge . african leaders are right to be concerned .
john dower , the american historian and specialist of modern japan , has studied the issue at length . he has demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different ways : from an american or japanese point of view , even when no one is making facts or trying to falsify sources . for the americans , a `` heroic '' institution in washington , for example , sought to take a fresh look at the enola gay , a us plane that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . he demonstrated how history can be presented and priced in totally different ways : from an american or a japanese point of view , although no one is making facts , or falsify sources .
it would push the real issues down the road , rather than the end of the brexit debate . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team that led earlier negotiations . that show has years to run through . it would have to brace itself together at the october 17 meeting of the european council , where european leaders have grown increasingly frustrated with the eu-wide process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded a civil-service team that spearheaded past negotiations .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people left the void filling by which putin and iran have filled . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , busily constructing illiberal states within the eu . likewise , as if our failure to secure stability for our own neighborhood had been insufficient , we also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the eu . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders , who frighteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . european leaders all too often shout at the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests .
as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of advantage systems . for starters , delivering benefits “ points , ” ” ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable schemes that function across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . a common framework must also establish in such a way that such programs can be scaled up and be implemented in diverse contexts . to deliver opportunity and security to all , everywhere in an age of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that satisfy workers ’ pressing and evolving needs . and standardized educational credentials would preserve their worth as they move with those who earned them .
rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers have been in awe of wall street ; brazil does n’t like that hang up . on the surface and below , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation is down to negligible levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are worried about their own well being , not with the prosperity of foreign investors . if and when the latter part of the latter , brazilian policymakers will shed little tears for international investors . moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will respond to crisis far from this point of view of mexico .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land-conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be flocking to forest and soils . but , while the techniques already underway will require increasing use of unobservable farming , adopting permaculture principles , better management of wetlands , and using rotational grazing techniques among other measures . transforming how people acquire and consume energy and exploit land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to define course for success . the power of markets to drive radical change in energy and land-use management is great , but , as the 2017 storm season should remind us , the climate emergency that we face demands vigorous and urgent action . but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate ; we must act now .
but their proposals , a single-payer system ( “ medicare ” for all ” ) , a national health service , or anything else , do not mean anywhere else . several us states , including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , a kamala harris , and beto o’rourke , are not fully agreeing about the details of such regimes , or are simply unspelled them out . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare to fund a fortunes tax above $ 50 million . but , after former us president barack obama tried to ban america ’s health-care disaster with halfway measures , arguably the most that could possibly be politically feasible at a time , those vying for the democratic nomination obviously have more ambitious plans . many of the democratic presidential candidates have appealed to a major expansion of government-sponsored health expenditures .
voters are more likely than not to be attracted to candidates with anti-establishment credentials and can safely be expected to deviate from the prevailing policies . but there is another explanation , one fully respecting rationality and self-interest . they argue that it is reformers , but why should voters believe that leaders who appear no different from an earlier crop of politicians , who oversold them gains from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ? when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they make . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the problem of asymmetric information .
though kagame remains popular , his reign was widely criticized for suffocating free speech and promoting human rights in the run-up to the vote . the conclusion that i draw is not that human rights do matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff is sustained at an early stage of economic and institutional governance . today , leaders in rwanda , widely regarded as an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . politically , rwanda has been powerful , disciplined , and organized , but by no means liberal .
the cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that have their lifeblood relied on the threshold levels of safety , stability , and predictability . continued economic advances in the developing world , and the resurgence of the developed world , require that local and regional conflicts be prevented from delivering large-scale systemic shocks . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest with which to do so : nobody benefits from the spread of systemic risk . it is this threshold , which appears to be under attack , that appears to be at risk . with priority , it is no doubt more vital for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems that allow global flows more than it does to address strictly economic issues .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that major banks never adequately investigated for a mortgage origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that have been central to the financial crisis , and a loss of more than eight million jobs . if these charges turn out to be true , bank executives involved may worry that failing civil lawsuits would uncover the evidence that could have been used in criminal prosecution . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and us banks are currently focused on reported abuses at servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . but leading banks are also charged for illicit behavior , for instance , by inducing people to borrow properly by dropping out of the interest rate that would actually pay , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . but , thanks to the efforts of new york city ’s banking-phone movement , eric schulz , and others have started serious discussion in the united states about the out-shifting court mortgage settlement between us state generals and prominent financial-sector firms .
they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . “ over the rivers and down the highways and along the innumerable jungle route , east pakistan ’s population continues to hover in india : an interminable unorganized flow of refugees with a pair of tin kettles , cardboxes , and ragged clothes piled on their heads , carries their ill children and their old . others have cholera , and , with the roadside dying there , no one can bury them . they are silent along , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . many are sick and covered by sores .
a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , and left german chancellor angela merkel as the ultimate pillar of a decaying world order . in france , charges of currency manipulation and threats to protectionist measures have intensified . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine driving european integration and keeping it at the heart of the post-war multilateral system . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine driving european integration and keeping it at the heart of the postwar multilateral system . with the uk giving the world free trade of the 1840s , have now chosen to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is turning back to france and its looming presidential elections .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . new york , when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my home sri lanka , one can not wait for my first sex education class . in our early teens , my classmates and i used to be as curious as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . millions of young people around the world have similar experiences , often with severe adverse effects .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . just as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . “ if revolutions are contained , let ’s be ” rather committed than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , an impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited it is history . it is the world ’s largest volume exporter , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s presence there is a feeling around the world , from mines in africa to apple shops in the united states . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . as the us reflects china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short in overcoming systemic hurdles to long-term success .
how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the inner contradiction between an increasingly centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth might well fall quite dramatically . unfortunately , the possibility of shunning the transition to consumer-led growth and continuing to promote exports and real-estate investment is not very attractive , either . us president donald trump ’s trade war has rattled confidence , but this has merely been a downward shove to the economy , which has already been slowing as it drives the shift away from exports – and from investment-led growth to a more sustainable , domestic consumption-led growth process . after all , china is already the dominant global exporter , with neither market space nor political tolerance to accommodate its earlier pace of export-led expansion . a major chinese slowdown may already be coming to the fore .
the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its failure to promote democracy . the arab world faces major challenges that can be met only with more flexible , democratic political systems . alas , instead of progress , what we are seeing reflects a cycle of under-educational opportunity that is leading to insufficient economic opportunity . a well-educated citizenry is also vital if young men and women are to acquire the skills they need to perform the types of jobs that today ’s global and competitive world demands . democracy requires an informed citizenry capable of issuing its government .
with kurds – most of them civilians fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council remained typically silent , while europeans denounced everything and all of them . but the seeds for this larger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-led erdoğan call . absent any coherent policy , conditions have been ripe for a crisis . a president has threatened to wreck turkey ’s economy if it does what it allowed to be . as foreign-policy calamities play out , that is one for record-breaking books .
but a <UNK> ter-money program , an fanciful thought when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 , would also turn out to be a radical departure for policymakers , calling for an abundance of prudence in citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and solid governance structures . it is well documented that both europe and the united states have under-invested infrastructure . and such an approach would cement the notion that advanced-country central bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” ” ” ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility to pursue pro-growth policies , and the fiscal choices that they dominate . from a macroeconomic perspective , investing in infrastructure is a “ twofer ” ” ; it reinforces productivity and competitiveness in the longer term ; and , with unexploited capacity , it boosts demand , output , and employment with significant multiplier effects in the short run . and such an approach would cement the notion that advanced-country central bank policies are “ the only game in town , ” ” ” ” ” funded by government debt .
during the past 30 years , only 317 of 676 projects that have been sanctioned by parliament have been finalized , it is hard to see how the railways receive the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects . and , if all this was n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership apparently does n’t recognize the challenges that the railway has present . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , much less the time arrive , prime minister narendra modi referred to the introduction of bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . as a result , rail is running out of money before running out of plans . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money left over for upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up trains .
cities , to their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . in fact , there is a profound divide between left-leaning “ blue ” ” cities and “ right-leaning ” “ red ” states where many are located . a number of organizations now have emerged to reinforce city governments ’ policy-making capacity , including michael bloomberg ’s ’s ’s government innovation program , fuse corps , scores for america , social finance , third-party capital partners , and usafacts as well . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative , ” it is often assumed that state and local governments are pursuing equal goals .
let ’s start with a “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and the us , not to mention his homeland of australia , because of profit and political clout . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks might as well have patented the recipe for the deceitful , dog-whistle policies that drove trump ’s rise and the brexit vote . only when we identify the sources of the odious virus that are now afflicting our democracies can we take practical steps toward quarantine them . we need to look beyond those figures to identify who truly are responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have stepped down as a mainstream of public discourse .