another aspect of the current pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain a central pillar of the world ’s energy for decades to come . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , may diminish that region ’s importance . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , the complexity of which defies analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from its lack of peace with israel ?
with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the great two make further drastic cuts to theirs . with china taking this course , india – outside of the npt but with 100 arms of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . meanwhile , china shares russia ’s concerns over america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority and expands and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . and pakistan then becomes an even more determined attempt to stay ahead of india . in fact , this deterrence logic produces a snowball effect , and in the process , no less .
early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred despite a loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy . two centuries later that was no longer the case : in the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries that spread from the industrial revolution to the first time in history , light-years versus any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . to be sure , how , precisely , did these accomplishments seem to have occurred ? they occurred despite a tripling of population , which puts a extraordinary malthusian pressure on the economy ’s underlying natural-resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for almost a century of surging war against france , a power with more than three times britain ’s population . what were the small differences that turned out to matter so much ?
a referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis that will be managed , rather than the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers seem to imagine . at some point , the referendum is having little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis that will be managed , rather than the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . as tight-lipped as cameron has been an open ( if “ empty ” ) book , the eu has already created an institutional skeleton of a political strategy . her cabinet has created the department of international commerce to take responsibility for drafting the trading arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission did previously have to deal with such arrangements ) . next , the department , the so-called brexit ministry , will conduct political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations .
venezuela sought to finance itself with the help of the china development bank ( cdb ) , which does not impose the type of conditionality imf bashers dislike . instead , the cdb lends covert terms , for uses untutored and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas such as telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , cars ( haier ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . the chinese have not required that venezuela do whatever it can to increase the likelihood that its regains creditworthiness will be regains . indeed , they simply demand more oil as collateral , . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
it featured obama ’s two clips declaring , “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass the rule of law , ” ” ” and , “ “ “ “ “ what i ’m reach out to us ” senator dick lugar . the context was n’t explained , but what obama said wholeheartedly was this : “ i ’ve been working with republican senator dick lugar to pass a bill that ensures and destroys some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded arms , ” ” ” ” ” and , to a lesser degree , “ what i have actually been reach with senator dick lugar , a leading republican , to help lock down loose nuclear weapons . likewise , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty – to replace a fragile international moratorium – can not come into force without us senate ratification . with lugar ’s defeat and an simultaneous exit from last republican moderates , like senator olympic maine snowe , prepared to put national concerns ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to generate the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties . one tv advertisement has said all of the tea party-driven cynicism .
perhaps it will be imprisoned for assisting the terrorists , but its betrayal generates little resentment . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . they have called their crimes izmena rodine – a betrayal of the nobel motherland – and have married this high moral language to lesser transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . insecure states are quicker to feel acts of betrayal in their own hands . secure states have a propensity to forget about treason .
but , while ect rarely , if ever , causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage , and it has not been shown to do so in animal studies , the antipsychotic drugs today do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that has similarly been enforced on people , and even use of torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , antidepressant drugs and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . and , whereas few people today get ect involuntarily involuntarily , with every instance consent seeking , large and growing number of get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including infants , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and host others whose lives are shortened by treatments , with no effort to seek their consent . but , although ect ’s opponents believes that it causes brain damage , this makes it difficult to prove .
new york – singapore ’s trade negotiators recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance to complete what would be the world ’s largest regional free-trade deal . but , with serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the other ten pacific rim countries with combined annual output of about $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout matches their aspirations ; talks move beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of the 29 proposed chapters ; and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues affecting many millions of people – not always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complex question .
late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to build a consensus on open-ended education for all ideals and approaches , committing ourselves to it in cape town open learning statements that have been formally launched on january 22 . open learning promises to enable children to learn materials tailored to their individual needs by opposing today ’s “ off the rusting ” materials , combining quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improve learning . and open-ended education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage socio-cultural interaction among female students and teachers globally . the exciting point about open education is that unfettered access is only the beginning . open education promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic learning ecosystem that is at the perpetual state of creation , employing , reuse , and upgrading .
what , in his view , is the limits to american engagement ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” ” ” ” ” ” and ethnic cleansing constitutes “ transfers of populations . in other words , there is a need for hazy language to obscure unsavory realities . under what conditions , the states that are exploiting its capabilities ? almost 70 years ago , when george orwell investigated the tendencies toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ policy speech and scripture are largely indefensible . ”
brussels – to many people in the west , china appears to have gone out of a country that has “ kept a cool head ” and maintains a low profile , ” ” ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . putting an australian mining officer beyond bars more than a dozen years , squeezing google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a middle level official wag its finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit , is not , after all , the best way to convince partners of your constructive intentions . nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has steadfastly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major insulting military systems , and pillorying western leaders in favor of irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the bottom line in reciting this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it demonstrates the dilemma on which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” power , the world conveniently forgetting the many hundreds of millions that it still needs to withdraw from poverty . the chinese leadership seems aware of this dilemma , and is not , indeed , anxious to drift into fierce competition with the west or its neighbors .
yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it , not just normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . if that continues , europe will lose its leverage in world affairs , and become progressively more irrelevant . fortunately , the us ’s own experience in the 1980s suggests a way forward . the international situation at a time was no less dangerous than it is today . it was achieved , first and foremost , through a dialogue with the us .
and once such firms are established and dominate their selected markets , the new economy allows them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent the actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . such factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to big firms that have diminished need for labor . but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age . this augmented market concentration is widening the gap between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and unskilled workers that replace robots ( labor ) . and , as mit ’s political economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and jan van reenen , america ’s fastest-growing industries of market concentration , also saw the largest drop in labor income .
do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s various political leaders , particularly the one of “ merkozy ” merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately not : progress stemmed almost entirely from much-maligned financial markets ’ pressure . and whom are we to thank for all that europe ’s progress ? just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by italy ’s political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to europe ’s fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration ; we know it .
forecasts for america ’s economic growth have been revised downward dramatically since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that the us faces . and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting effect on america ’s manufacturing industries might actually slow the american economy , undermining its import demand and causing damaging the word for exporters . indeed , this pre-2008 us debt did not go away ; it was simply shifted between industries and countries . demand still leaves the us depressed by a overhang of pre-2008 debt .
paris – us president donald trump has rocked a transatlantic alliance that had long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu is about to collapse soon , it foresaw , with the succession of post-crisis countries out of the united kingdom . the united states , its position suggests , would have been more than fine with this . with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and a natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a number of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , battery-powered vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for the mining and hydrocarbon sector . all of these industries will enjoy the potential for vast demand growth in big markets , like china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . moreover , the social and political environment must be conducive to a high-tech workforce , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and supporting entrepreneurial and creativity . those that have survived have all but barely recovered , with vastly reduced output going mainly to the ex-soviet market .
in fact , the right type of public-sector investment would probably spur more private-sector investment . a return to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms , which vary from country to country . and there is some potential for exploitation , with executives being misclassified as investment . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-run aggregate demand ( implying that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . to be sure , the situation is not cut and dried up .
a central issue in such tv programs is not so much the key roles play for women . outside the united states , women have already reached at the highest level of power . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is widely regarded or resented for her austerity policies , rather than for her gender . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for mismanaging the economy , and america ’s banking interests for forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . character , not gender , drives the narrative .
the us federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising the fed ’s governors/presidents of regional federal reserve banks , has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and can be expected to remain there or fall even further . the fed warns that it may raise the federal funds rate if the anticipation of the annual inflation rate rises from its current level of just below 2 % to just over 2.5 % . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous and therefore uninformative . bernanke stressed that the two policies are on stand-off tracks and will react to various economic indicators ’s performance . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed might not be ready to raise its federal funds rate until the end of 2015 .
russia , prokhorov concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the “ natural-resource curse ” afflicting many of the oil-exporting countries . during the last 20 years , social inequality grew threefold . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % of that in the us , making up the economy ’s struggles even as oil prices , its principal exports , are peaking . and , with housing , health care , and education less open now than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program has focused on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – a key problem holding back russia ’s economy . as a result , two million well-educated professionals have been emigrating in russia recently .
more important , the united states ( ideally , joined by other oecd countries ) has allowed iran to know that any action to place itself in the field of nuclear weapons , after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , does not lead to such a accord . iran should likewise be briefed on its fact that america and its allies commit a preventive military strike if this does appear to be attempting to present the world with a fait accompli . in the meantime , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s concern with its neighbors , several of them tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakaway region in 15 years , by pursuing its own nuclear programs of its own making . the world erred in allowing north korea to pass a nuclear-weapons threshold ; that should n’t make the same mistake again .
in the run-up to the coming years , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost surely make a bad deal for greenspan . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump pledged to enact deep tax cuts and kept spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” army . this , in turn , will spur near-term economic growth , pushing down interest-rate spreads . short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a currency ’s underlying strength . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – especially as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling .
as home secretary , she frequently championed battles against other ministers simply by refusing to voice her views , or even to appear in meetings until the minutes have to come for a final decision . europe ’s leaders could easily neutralize might ’s threat of a no-deal brexit , and thus remove any need to offer the kinds of concessions that she claims will have . to do so , they need to understand the method behind may ’s home maddening strategy of indecision and delay . but this happy outlook of may rests on one critical premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . across her own political career , may has used her procrastination as a winning strategy .
the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . finally , service-sector productivity figures together amount to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , relative to the oecd average of more than 90 % . in recent months , north korea has fired a few ballistic missiles and implemented a nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary brand rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump . externally , south koreans have been highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat .
second , continued imperialism in both near-abroad and in chechnya strengthens the reactionary forces who oppose liberal democracy . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , shows that , because liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to members ’ colonial subjects or specific groups . thus , as long as russia continues on its imperialist line , its own democracy will be at risk . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state-within-a-currency resources that were devoted to extending russian influence over the non-russian republics . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , shows that , because liberal democratic ideals take root in a community , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or to particular groups .
from a japanese perspective , an `` regard of victimization , '' '' in which `` atomic bombs have become a symbol of some kind of suffering , rather than of the holocaust for jews . whether we identify with former heroes or victims , with uav pilots who put the end of wwii , or with a passive population subjected to the inferno of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting for `` innocents '' and `` good guys . '' at the hiroshima museum itself , the sacrifice role of this process has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government 's responsibility for initiating and continuing war nor the inhumane treatment that both prisoners of war , or the subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule , are sufficiently acknowledged . everyone chooses the point of view that best works .
the intended recipients of such activism should be defined almost as rights-holders . accountability mechanisms should be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their inability to take action . this removes the stigma of charities and undermines their victims . the framework also should include an indiscriminate requirement , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups , rather than just the well-connected , allies and favorites in the regime , rather than just the groups on which quick wins can be made . rather than aid because they have unsatisfied needs , they receive remedies , because their rights are being violated .
the most significant problem it needs is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese are stealing american firms ’ technology and using it to help chinese firms compete with those same firms in china and around the world . that compulsory technology sharing makes the rules of the world trade organization explicitly forbidden . first , american firms wishing to do business in china are required to have a chinese partner , and to share their technology with that firm . this , in two ways , the chinese are doing just that .
but the battle within islam is no satisfactory or ample explanation of the state of anarchy that we see in a place like south sudan , whose country ’s roughly 11 million people gained their independence just over three years ago . though the world ’s newest countries emerged from a bitter civil war between christians and muslims , an independence referendum had received 99 % support . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it harks out countries and regional apart , assiduously traveling people halfway around the world to join jihad , threatening to unleash further violence against muslims as well as against christians , jews , and others . still , the 1.5 million of its citizens were uprooted , which have nothing to do with islam and anything to do with the struggle along its ethnic lines for mastery of the country ’s resources .
in the u.s. , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began as a program whereby the us treasury department purchased problematic , largely mortgaging assets directly from financial institutions . hoping to prevent a bank run , the irish government offered a blanket guarantee of every banking payment . but that turned out to be a more complicated process than originally thought , and in only a few weeks time , the government simply recapitalized american banks in the eu . with that one unilateral decision , iran destabilized the rest of europe . other missteps were not so easily reversed .
hate speech and other types of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked . but this is no quick fix , either . on one hand , increased media literacy is necessary on the part of consumers who must be taught , from the young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other side , and this is what un netzdg attempts to ensure , – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible use . conversely , it calls for a fundamental rethink by business models that make it easier and even reward hate speech .
independently of what we think of britain leaving the eu , we can ask two further questions , one general and one concrete way to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy be able to decide directly , in a referendum rather than via their elected representatives ? on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy nowadays is that it follows from an idea of democracy itself subject only to feasibility limits . in earlier times , a small city-states might have served as directly democracies ; but in larger countries , when their communication has been slow , the approval ratings would have to be levied to decide the many questions required to discuss and vote upon . and , more accurately , should britain ’s various legislators possibly consider themselves tied to the june 23 referendum ?
what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ as long as american companies retain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and request devices , governments elsewhere than the united states will demand the same access and will also be emboldened to demand an equal capability from their native companies . no matter how its own policies are challenged , the american government will be unable to object because of its own policies . a large us coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to president barack obama arguing against behind closed doors . they regard a back-door request that an automobile manufacturer would find a request for a defective engine . in addition to “ undermining ” every american ’s cyber security and national-security policy , ” ” signers argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken america ’s encrypted products would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . kuala lumpur , malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad , suddenly find itself mired in a polio scandal following the online circulation of a sex video involving a cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the resulting incarceration of men ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those preceding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems .
at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of liberalism , the future of social-democratic democracy , the rise of surging nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is actually notable . more broadly , macron has made a leap into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” ” ” ” ” ” terrain no longer defined exactly by competition between large center-right and center-left parties . macron has also signaled his intention to pursue a pan-european campaign of elections for next month ’s european parliament . like a democrat , he believes that deepening the european union will have to go its hand in advancing the eu with the evolution of a truly european political space . but is polish politics really turning the page on the eu ’s traditionally left cleavage ?
london – most pundits concur that the least bad approach to dealing with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling has been the ongoing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer still , they recognize that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its rogue neighbor , constitutes a chinese invasion or regime change forced through china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s launch threat . this outcome , which would sharply shift east asian countries ’ strategic balance of power in china away from promoting it , is not nearly as unlikely as most people assume it . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason to be taken seriously , including by china ’s military planners . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ”
spiekermann , the global authority on the trafficking of our online identities for the purposes of targeted advertising , politicians , public - and private-sector surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began the debate on personal data as the world ’s new asset classes in 2011 , ” she told me , “ trust-based markets have thrived on the notion that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ internet site in today ’s digital economy – just as it appears – of politics . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon that harvest and use our data for any purpose one might think , ” ” spiekermann says . as a result , “ more than a thousand companies now engage in the digital information value chain , ” which harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted online content or “ mobile ” users in roughly 5,000 seconds of their entry into the us digital domain . “’ data management platforms , like those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai , possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles about hundreds of millions of
it gives poor access to a broader variety of commodities , while also providing firms with a more diversified set of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factories jobs and drive down agricultural prices , outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . as a result , increased trade can indeed demand difficult adjustments in the short run . in india , for example , youth poverty has been declining more slowly in areas where farmers faced increased foreign competition . given the constraints on inter-sector-labor mobility , stemming from barriers to acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when this changes .
for kenya , the very public decline of the nation has come at a steep cost . but it has also proven to be that press freedom means far more than letting journalists know what they want when they want and how they want to do so . it also means holding media proprietors accountable to the public . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions might most have benefited at the expense of such a mirror , those who have historically held it now believe that they have no alternative but to put it down . at the same time , kenyans need similar means in terms of reflection today .
merely lowering interest rates did n’t and wo n’t , leading firms to invest more in these sectors . in fact , the 2001 recession of 2001 combined a inventory reduction with a surge of investment . the first comes to an end now ; the second , following overinvestment in high technology and telecoms , those sectors that were so important during the boom of the late one bust -- may well last much longer . there remains a considerable capacity overhang -- like the fiber optic line , which remains dark yet to see any light pass through them . the good news -- and the bad -- is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is vastly rapid , that a large number of equipment may become obsolete before they are sleeping together or even harnessed , enabling new investment to start even faster than it otherwise would have been .
two years of negotiation ( longer , if the eu agrees to do one ) will follow . once the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiation are established by early next year , they can formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . by that point , the next general election will not go far enough , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . that , at least , is the eu ’s formal plan . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another as rats in sack , will have to come up with a package .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 marked the student protests against the vietnam war . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles poured flowers under adam mickiewicz ’s monument , the nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , wrote in praise of the struggle for freedom , denounced jews recently as subversive and quiescent , and its performance at national theater in warsaw . these are just a few of the variations between west and eastern european students in which the springtime of the rebellion of forty years ago . in warsaw , too , students protest , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts .
preliminary conclusions emerging from such studies illuminate political debates , and probably the annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , that runs from the zero value of perfect equality to one that reaches 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all the income ) . the average gini score ( non-weighted non-weighted populations ) in the countries for which the data have declined moderately during the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . crucially , that figure is comparable across a large set of middle - and lower-income countries , as well as with data available for the advanced countries .
likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will raise household incomes and domestic consumption , wage increases can erode the export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . a final piece of the puzzle for china is one of realism . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to sustain decent growth of around 7 % annually , while pushing for both rebalancing and reform . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical for china ’s long-term prosperity . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocations and structural vulnerability .
it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary had to fulfill stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . at the same time , despots throughout history have put the same tactics into use . yet , in the eu in 2017 , orbán is doing so . and , by shutting out such a prominent us-backed institution , he can convey a message that nobody who opposed him has won him . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has set the paradox for the eu .
question : do you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in a generational , philosophical crisis across the west ? soros : i debated this in 2000 , in my book the crisis of global capitalism . soros : the ecb is a functioning institution . this is one reason why i am hopeful that something really significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . so long as it acts within the eu , germany is in no position to veto it .
moreover , italy is not as though a flat capital-gains tax will impede social mobility or increase poverty . indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has raised gdp by one factor of four . in france , social mobility has not witnessed any major change since 1991 . by moving away from the vantage point system of universal eligibility to one that find more suitable fit for all college-educated students after school , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and increased social mobility . macron ’s revolution is thus on the shifting agenda .
beyond individual businesses , entire value chains that contribute heavily to a country ’s ’s gdp have suffered an abrupt and financial freeze . but , while many observers have focused on scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing official corruption and punishing offenders . ongoing prosecutions have already altered the calculus of any economic proxy , who thinks they violate the public ’s trust in private-sector gain . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their social status . reforming the relationship between brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s public and private sectors can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance .
even in the new eu member states , enthusiasm about the european family of democracies is cooling down . as the union races ahead , it appears that it has lost europeans along the way . as the races ahead , europe , with its back , seems to have lost europeans along the way . for their part , many are turning their backs on the entire project . they no longer feel part of the big whole .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( arguably about lifting the sanctions on which us president barack obama imposed on russian businesses ) . more importantly , president-elect donald trump , jr. , together with other top campaign leaders , met in trump tower with a russian-us intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin who had pledged “ dirt ” on clinton . it was generally expected that trump ’s son would face impeachment , as was his wont , even donald , jr. , that , but barr ’s announcement ruled out further impeachment . another prominent escapee from the special counsel was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house roles , particularly in foreign policy ( in which he ’d ’d ’d lack the experience ) , to attend his family ’s need to bail out his vast real-estate debt . yet trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations launched by or handed down on the federal and state prosecutors outside of washington .
in reality , the us and its allies simply do not like the results of an arab democracy that all too often produces governments that are nationalistic , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the ballots travel in this direction , the us simply ignores electoral outcomes ( as it did in march 2006 , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . in fact , the us and its allies simply do not like the results of an arab democracy that all too often produce governments that embrace nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . on the one hand , pundits argue that arabs can not manage a democracy . on the other hand , pundits argue that arabs do not have the capacity to govern themselves .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is rousing itself against an aids pandemic sweeping through the one of the world ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and southeast asia . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million orphans . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : around 25 million people suffering from it in africa ; six million more in asia . globally , 34 million more people are living with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all of them are marked for an early death . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted by the disease , and 10 % live with tb .
fragile treaties that cover this are enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can really afford to place assets high . as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized in traffic . airsomewhat liners and fighter aircraft operate in “ controlled ” air close to the ground , while nationality supposedly matters the less you go on . the oceans belong to everyone except those near the landmasses that manage the world ’s land-locked borders . in most instances , the laws on the skies mirror those in which they govern the world ’s oceans .
in fact , few other trends pose even a bigger threat to global stability . and our contemporary era is not a fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age and an end to the industrial age utterly . almost all societies have become heavily reliant on the internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure – as well as infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , this will be the “ internet of everything . ” the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors already routinely exploiting .
china ’s pre-reform era industrialization strategy rejected the notion of a “ set of comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more effectively than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . jamaica , say , is not producing frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fetuses and tourism generates far more meager gains . at the same time , wto membership will force the government to cease discrimination in favor of soes and away from industries that enjoy high levels of private ownership , including agriculture . at the same time , wto membership will force the government to cease discrimination in favor of soes and away from industries with high levels of private ownership , including agriculture . in china , most soes have survived because central planners emphasize economic autarky regardless of cost .
whereas the league party promises to slash taxes , the populist five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income . still , the mainstream political parties that have governed italy up to this year have failed to deliver on the nominal gdp growth the country needs . as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines the populist left policies with those of the populist right . at the same time , there are some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation and soaring indebtedness . yet before the new government assumed office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit – unlike its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained compared to the rest of the eurozone , as were other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) .
learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing poses a key challenge in its economic development . an efficient strategy has to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional fields and pot out projects and investment failure . encouraging foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to improve , does not work . for that to happen , governments need to deploy both the carrot and the stick . a carrot is necessary because there is big social value in discovering , for example , that slashed flowers , or soccer balls , or computer software can be made at low cost , because that knowledge can orient investments made by other entrepreneurs .
the effect of the us dollar ’s decline over the coming decade might turn out to be equally consequential . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline hits us import prices , the increased cost of imports would sap american real incomes at around 0.4 % per year . combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with a counter-cyclical rebound effect , an estimated 1.2 % annual growth in real gdp – would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % – well above the 1.9 % pace of a decade ago . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the us . as long as the us trade deficit narrowed by 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied net rise in us exports and declining imports would reduce us output at around 0.3 % per year .
holdouts asserted that if the new bonds were fully serviced ( as they were ) , a equal treatment required that the holdouts should receive the full amount owed ( including not only interest but also principal ) . the american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was obliged to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders on the same big proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of the pegged exchange rate bonds . as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts in full or default on the new bonds . an american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was tied to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders in the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of the exchange rate . as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts in full or default on the new bonds .
this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asian asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean where china gets chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . to be sure , india is deeply suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading carefully enough that it can press on its aims without spooking its intended quarry . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project aimed at building a sprawling complicated roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , a “ port city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nauseating “ road . ” zhou bo , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the political and economic landscape of the indian ocean , ” while also depicting china as a “ strong yet benevolent ” power .
and it reinforces the national counterterrorism effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . at the same time , modi ’s government embraced the upa-proposed goods and services tax that had stalled under bjp-ruled rule states ( including modi ’s chief of gujarat ) . yet sharif was an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . india ’s citizens , who thought that they voted for change , are starting to wonder whether the bjp had simply reprised the upa cabinet over its policies . many modi supporters in the media have already begun to decry the policy-abdications modi has carried out since his campaign .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the need at the un conference to discuss security and military affairs alongside the charter of stability has made a pressing issue . in every conflict , human rights are one of the first casualties ; and , in the middle east , degradation of human dignity has now undone the international conventions agreed over a few generations . europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been great . a regional agenda must be devised to help identify priorities , one based on a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction . we should look to the helsinki process to show us in retrieve what had been lost .
who , after all , might have anticipated that bill clinton was following america ’s president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all of its manifold ways ? for example , when the imf rightly suggested , following argentina ’s crisis , that a better way of debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy process ) , america vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed a treaty aimed at restricting bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did whatever they could have done to ensure that no meaningful reform occurred during the crisis , with the knowledge that , after the crisis , the momentum toward reform would have laid bare . they were , for good measure , more right than they knew .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria ’s park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protestors in beijing ’s tiananmen square . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china more than 20 years ago . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong residents . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s showdown reflected growing frustration , with not only china ’s leaders , but also its own .
in choosing goals and articulation in a vision , they need not only solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . for leaders to get the question right before them , leaders must get the answers . at stake , what plays well with one party may not sit well with the other side of the issue . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnoses of the situation that a group faces . they must be able to assess reality with precision .
if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the shortfalls that they cause . sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . here , too , their record , is demonstrably poor . last but not least , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear non-proliferation . but , by making matters worse in business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector .
no power anywhere , inside or outside the region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision for a new regional order , or even a vision for parts of it . internally , almost all of these nations had a fairly clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , liberty , market economies , and protection from the returns of the russian empire in the first place . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union made sense . nothing of the kind applies to the middle east 's crisis à la iran . central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a very interesting reference point for analysts of the arab revolutions , is not an adequate reference point , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from changing external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power .
fresh haven – by now , it has been ’s an all-too-familiar drill for it . following an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the us federal reserve began the long march to normalization . it then took the first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate , to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint to the american economy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake , one that may be warranted by the internet . indeed , it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate , to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint for america ’s economy .
de gregorio ’s views differ from that of many of his colleagues in other countries as a whole , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become bigger and to apply what he calls “ clever ” ” strategies that require much leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least because of fiscal balances when implicit guarantees must be freely usable . moreover , the risk build-up in a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after a governor ’s term of office has already expired ) . indeed , the danger to central banks stemmed from the fact that the implicit subsidies that major financial institutions provide are not measured in any budget . by keeping banks and other over-indebted firms reduce their debt significantly , vulnerability to shocks diminishes .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny for what russian president vladimir putin is up to syria , and for why . now , russian bombast and cruise missiles are raining about the array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , giving the regime the breathing space meant for russia to provide . what we know is that putin chose to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . as bad as assad ’s government is , and like it has to respond for , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse . much analysis , while narrowly focused on the short term , may prove to be overly negative when assessing his actions , ’ likely longer-run implications .
using data for 2017 , the us finds that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) instances lodged every wto member country against an exporting country ( a log on a graph ’s vertical axis below ) has a tendency to decline as the exporter ’s income level rises ( shown through a log on the horizontal axis ) . this might be because the richer nations observe the rules better , get less anti-subsidy , or some combination of the two . this can be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trading framework . every blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , and a solid black line shows the international average ( drawn from every member country excluding china ) . the pattern of data is fairly clear : as a country becomes richer , there are far fewer anti-subsidy or antisubsidy cases against it .
most bets are on britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a definitive divorce settlement . the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences are being postponed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft , ” exit , but that probably will be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . if the brexit trajectory turns out to be this way , a good illustration of the dual – and functioning – of politics will weigh carefully . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words ought to be somewhat savage , because they are an attack on disthinking , ” ” he wrote in 1933 .
new situations in iraq , together with the middle eastern road map , have been at the center of attention . the atmosphere could n’t have been more tranquil : former royalty castle in rolling the hills of taunus regions near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians have hosted an annual meeting dealing with the middle east . the novelty this year was a presence in post-saddam iraq ; among them an official from a kurdish regional government , as well as a high senior shi'a proxy . a new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s road map , was at the center of attention . on nearly one occasion , a senior german government minister , quite himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity both to israeli as well as palestinian concerns .
observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by the evening ’s prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including brief sermon ) , social relations , qiyam ( another late-night praying prayer ) , suhur ( another late-night praying ) , suhur ( another collective food producer ) , and then morning prayers . after sunset , a common program exists . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite an almost-total lack of coverage by local media outlets . the last ten days of ramadan are featuring me ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open covenants . and ramadan , for now , has been playing – is mobilization-friendly .
we are broadening our consultation with governments and other actors , and collaborating more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media outlets , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and industry associations . as we fund infrastructure and other projects in our region , we will strive to integrate into disenfranchised regions and rural areas . no country or region can indeed aspire to full , broad-based economic growth , without pulling along all of its segments of its population and without giving a voice to all . with an emerging , goes the us has partners with which it can engage on governance issues . as africa ’s lead development-finance institutions , the african development bank will support our north african parliamentarians , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthen social safety nets , and establish the foundations for strong economic recovery .
the fate of the rest of the world depends on answers to unfolding financial turmoil . even many of the world ’s poorest countries seemed , at long last , to join in , posting strong growth on the back of rising energy and raw materials prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and boosting fiscal revenues . while the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they have diverted attention from the shaky foundations of our newfound prosperity . the growing need for arrangements to correct global imbalances was met with a disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ” the contraction of us property and stock markets will no doubt dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral .
manila – food scarcity is a distant memory for many people in asia . owing to its expanding middle class , the region is likely to account for about half of global growth in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , it could once again become a painful fact of life . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , with its population projected to grow to five billion – an increase approaching 900 million people by 2050 . and , by that time , over 60 % of total cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia .
the situation there , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized , and risks becoming a full-blown regional civil war . this is not to say that an american should necessarily engage with every problem . but , whether america is engaged or not , requires policy . for the us , syria is a case in point . what the america needs is a better way to help its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east in mounting trouble .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . everyone , from households to businesses to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : data . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . the question , then , is how to achieve it . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , arming an increasingly diverse pool of guns , cyber-attacks occur at a faster pace , and with more sophistication than ever before .
integrating the migrants makes a lot of sense ; but it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in the troubled countries with the aid of a generation of emigrants who were first transferring resources and then reversing themselves . in this way , more portugals and irelands can produce the wealth of the already prosperous regions . viewed from perspective such truths provide , europe ’s close enlargement of the european union , for example , is highly desirable , not despite , but because it can spur migration from the more new member states toward the old one . this is not the only way forward , nor is it the first step forward . numerous consequences follow from such home-grown truths about immigration , not least greater rational discussion .
the costs are miniscule : achieving 80 % of the world ’s population with 140 million , or so undernourished children , could require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually , with the resulting economic gains finally establishing $ 1 billion annually . for $ 286 million , we could acquire iodized salt and enriched basic food items to as much as $ 0.12 per year , with the benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that of sum . fortifying these products with iron at costs as little as $ 0.12 per person , we do . providing iron and iodized salt is another top-notch investment . we know that an iron deficiency leads to cognitive , developmental challenges .
many projects , from airports to university campuses to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , which implies that weak short-term demand will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient traits – might become viable with action from policymakers . standardization and liberalization of european telecoms have underpinned 9 % growth of value added and productivity growth over this period , compared to america ’s 6 % growth . even if european countries closed just 10 % of gdp on capital stock per year per service-sector worker , the impact could be over € 360 billion in additional investment – offsetting € 354 billion in private-sector investment from 2007 to 2011 . the largest scope for renewed private investment lies in capital-intensive industries , in which the government has a major presence as a regulator .
indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades and climbing to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has plummeted to about 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year . those who believe that this will , typically rely on three arguments , all of which require some training . first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . as a result , the differential between trend growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group – has narrowed significantly . this question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards introduced a high degree of moral hazard and created perverse incentives by governments and market players alike . these included high levels of stock and private debt , poor institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections by corporations and banks . under recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assumed risk should have been liable for italy was replaced by a principle of joint liability , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when the crisis erupted . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity implies that europe ’s actual problems have gone unaddressed . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all of these advocating risk-sharing .
the formation of a new eurasia union was an essential part of its platform . but 2004 was also a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who attempted to bring his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by backing massive voting manipulation . the hoped-for break with the past did not come because political infighting among poland ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . the failure represented a bitter coup by the kremlin , one that had been neither forgiven nor forgotten . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , and in 2012 putin chose for his third term in russia .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 came seven years of capital flight . the third virtuous cycle of inflow occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crises of the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , now it is time for a third of the “ sudden stop ” ” ” of capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps , just as a few data points , and some biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle seriously ? perhaps , if we have some lines of causation that these periodicity might have explained to international capital flows .
they would , in turn , secure votes for the federal government to assume and repay states ’ defaulted debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder to achieve than it is today . jefferson and madison did not want a country ’s capital city to be at the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to give it help to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . a responsible fiscal state emerged out of this grand compromise . despite vast costs , over half of the fledgling government of expenditures in early years went to the service of debt , the economy shook away from the 1780 ’s depression and entered a growth boom .
digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate major economic value for individuals , companies , companies , and governments alike . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower fraud rates , overhaul customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen saving and credit for under-banked customers . they can also spur development , by enabling digital-talent matching and streamlined hiring , which results in higher labor-market participation . digital ids might even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems . digital id could play a much more expansionist role in how individuals and institutions interact .
but the second revolution , which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treachery . if the revolution continues apace , its disintegration into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurrent cycle of violence . the first revolution of 1917 overthrew czar nicholas ii and produced a provisional government that headed by the socialist leader , alexander kerensky , turned out to make a transition blip . lenin described kerensky , as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order , in order to continue cheating off workers and peasants . but if the revolutions were aborted , its leaders would be undisguised as empty windbags .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to talk openly about developing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in action on its behalf . moreover , such a resolution would protect the fed ’s crucial monetary-policy independence . below it , there is an opportunity to establish a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the comptroller of the currency , the office of thrift oversight , and the regulatory roles of regional feds . the crisis has proven that we need this kind of plain speaking , and right now . in a perfect world , one would add to state banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point i have started trample on the cherished features of the american constitution !
in india , for example , there is fear that small , mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed if wal-mart reenter the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . say , the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , assist small retailers in finding specialized niches in market , or it can provide skills training to displaced workers . artisanal retailers ’ survival should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold the business regulation that ultimately protects the underdeveloped wealthy . asian policymakers need to remember how they have successfully developed their manufacturing sectors – through competition .
toulouse – as long as history punishes those who can not learn from it , financial history does its punishing around a sadistic twist – also punishes those in learning from it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises have reflected the vulnerabilities of regulatory systems founded on the lessons learned from previous crises . time and again , financial crises reflect the vulnerabilities of regulatory systems founded on the lessons learned from previous crises . today , no exception is true ; nor is another . first , we thought that the primary reason for banks to fail is that depositors panic , not that the major reason depositors panic , is that they are in danger of failing .
the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs convincing as much . on a practical level , a us-china bit would make it easier for chinese actors to invest and operate in the us , and to increase american firms to gain access to chinese markets . such a deal would be a near-term boon to xi , because it would represent a vote of american confidence in china ’s struggling economy . but the prospects of doing a bit are uncertain , at best . for china , its greatest prize is the ( bit ) bilateral investment treaty .
this is particularly interesting , because it fundamentally refutes one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . the ipcc ’s report makes it clear that the exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science , although they annoy people , and perhaps will win gore ’s academy award . in graphic detail , gore showed how a 20-meter sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . again , the report also disclosed the odds of yet another gore scenario : that global warming might force the gulf stream backward , turning europe into a new siberia . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario , too vividly depicted in the hollywood film the day after tomorrow , is thought “ very unlikely . ”
for starters , lowering imports costs will boost chinese households ’ purchasing power , as well as access to products that can improve their quality of life . moreover , chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment , which will boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers may end up boosting exports . it is telling that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus with any single specific partner , even though its total trade surplus with the us is rising . finally , an international import expo will complement china on other measures to liberalize its market , including lower entry barriers for foreign state-owned financial firms . and , even if the import expo expands rather than shrinks , the country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits .
after all , russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet countries is based on the doctrine of a “ liberal empire , ” the ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic entities across the territories across the former soviet republics by acquiring their own assets . against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that an empire of the “ new russia dream ” should be built through purely economic means , excluding all of the forcible action against other nations . naturally , a key role within this model is given to the supply of energy to the post-soviet countries . this is the case in which many continue to question whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means to project economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin does as its power near abroad . employing the “ energy weapon , ” ” ” ” ” then , is not merely a tactic : it lies at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russia ’s foreign policy .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provision , indeed , reduces the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the top among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – allows american companies to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries without ever paying an additional american tax . opponents of the legislation point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding as much as $ 1.5 trillion to the us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits , and i have long cautioned about their dangerous effects . but i am confident that the economic benefits resulting from a corporate-tax change will outweigh the adverse effects of increased debt .
to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to support some inflation , and even to correct some of the yen ’s underlying secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s less unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan to act once more . such actions are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , low grade currency war . what the us needs are a group of major economies , which is called the bank of japan ( boj ) , which announcing monetary policies in a coordinated fashion .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting points are the observation that , in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations compared with 2.5 % under republicans . the results are similar even if one handsigns responsibility for the first three months of the past , or the first few quarters , of a us president meeting to his predecessor . the gap in us economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities seemingly well above the threshold for statistical significance . if one goes further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the mismatch is even larger .
terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , the members of the national electoral commission and the supreme court justice , but no successors have been named because maduro is unwilling to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials to his choosing . indeed , one of the essential opposition leaders , leon lópez , has been arrested on the ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it is just as preposterous to tell the venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be “ the ones ” that they make up for their own destiny , but democratic means to do so are being denied to them . it would be preposterous to tell ukraine ’s demonstrators , facing government storm troopers and bear it with no external solidarity or support .
classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . true , the far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . but , in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point at hand . it is easy to see why . but , in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point at issue .
london – “ what if this is ‘ as good ’ as getting ’ ? ” many are wondering whether china ’s current trend growth rate will turn out to be as good as it gets for a long time to come . determining the validity of such worries requires understanding what drives china ’s economic slowdown . jack nicholson is asking , because he is treading through his psychiatrist ’s waiting room in the eponymous movie . at the recent meeting of g-20 finance ministers in shanghai at the recent meeting of the g-20 , participants questioned much the same question , rather than regarding medium-term expectations for weak global growth .
at the same time , the internet is disseminating the templates of what true democracy looks like , instantly and globally . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways indicating that they have little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identity . overwhelmingly , they are eager to simple democracy and economic self-determination . this agenda is in direct conflict with the interests of global capital , and the governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in march 2012 , as protestors ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupying moscow – gain further cohesion .
but the three largest european union member states , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all have large debts and annual deficits that point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . firms now worry that ever-increasing deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . that is a worrying prospect for all of them . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the costs of debt servicing the debts will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . rising levels of domestic debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be made available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment .
indeed , they have pioneered new retail bodies , from department stores to box stores . they have also tended to perform disproportionately on learned occupations – like medicine , law , and accountant – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fastest growing industries of the us economy since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely categorized as “ service-based ” by services , ” ” ” ” often involving the dissemination of information and entertainment , activities in which jews have been particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville , and along with movies on commercial sports . the fact that jews have long been a non-muslim subject of discrimination is sometimes given as a rationale for their propensity to devote to commerce , finance , and professions . yet not all minorities have long suffered from discrimination necessarily succeed in terms of market competition .
to help scale up the development and funding of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a un counterpart . a framework , called the “ vision for an ecologically responsible transition ” project , infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aims to help unlock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as asset classes , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors around the world . vert-infra at originally covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transportation and buildings , with dedicated emphasis on project projects in urban areas . until now , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding out private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap .
without the backing of china and india , america ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed ; on the contrary , this backing is only granted half-heartedly – if at all . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support . moreover , new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come on the international scene . today , after the us has had a world financial and economic crisis ( and in marked contrast to 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crisis and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb , with ample new dynamite taking place across the region .
skeptics keep arguing that market competition and technology wreak havoc on company harmony ; that they generate inequalities and eviscerate the middle class . true , new economies make it hard for those sitting on their backsides to live at the expense of stockholders or the taxpayer . but this , in the long run , is no longer the us story ; it just goes on . creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technological change ) is sweeping the world . true , it gives a chance for intensive people formerly on the sidelines .
the dartmouth researchers found that , of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the u.s. , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers were either growing so slowly that they posed no problem or would have been treated successfully had detected clinically later ( or they become so aggressive that little could be done ) . a further step in screening for cervical cancer screening took place last year , when immunization researchers at the us dartmouth institute for healthcare policy announced that the costs of cervical breast cancer screening were often minimized , and that the benefits were much exaggerated . indeed , even mammogram ( nearly 40 million of them annually in the u.s. ) that detects the cancer did not necessarily save lives . the chest x-rays for childhood cancer and pap testing for cervical cancer received a similar , if still less definitive , criticism .
a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century and the 80 % chance it will reach 9.6-12.3 billion in 2100 . this is important , because a rising population can pose an even bigger problem than was previously thought possible . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this motor : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for every $ 215 million woman worldwide – a large proportion of whom will want to avoid pregnancy costs around $ 3.6 trillion annually . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the primary engine of demographic growth .
moreover , unlike in the case of the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement does not drive the current conflict . after all , the fundamental problem in iraq is not jobs . after all , the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . this is a struggle for power , not economic justice , or a better life . state-owned companies should be free also to offer , but they should receive no favors .
this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain seems unable to recognize it . on russia since its georgia invasion , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first woman to visit georgian after the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continued russian-style campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia through actions such as expelling it from the g8 . such actions might ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgian survive , as an independent democracy . moreover , even after outrage within georgian , issues of shared interest arise – such as energy , climate change , and iran , upon whom both the west and the kremlin must cooperate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the central authority erodes as the country continues to splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions , with a de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . southerners ( aden ) and the eastern ( hadramaut ) are sitting on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country has been ruled by fragile unification . in libya , the implosion of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime threw the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . in yemen , the possibility of an adequate central authority is slipping away as a country confronts several seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and failing economies . the south remains lawlessness , while rule by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to a poorly consolidated government in tripoli .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a broad consensus emerged that the general public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and stimulate us economic growth . but that consensus turned out to be short-lived , and soon public-sector economic interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and so called for a sudden reversal . it turned out that this proved to be a grave mistake , with greece and other countries seeking to do so . in europe , notably spain , governments were lambasted for their heavy debts , though private-sector debt , not public borrowing , created the bust . many were instructed to introduce austerity rather than to stimulate growth with countercyclical policies .
empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge to decide well . that means welcoming the demands of migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabilities , and empowering citizens through education and participation . we must struggle excluding our politics from this one another , just as we struggle with exclusion within our societies . in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead is far-reaching reforms in this direction . likewise , the objective of a socialist international order is a world governed not by free markets but by free people .
unlike europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the banking and household sectors have made some progress on deleveraging . at the same time , shale energy has given the american economy an important competitive edge in manufacturing both in general and in cyber-chemicals , particularly . quantitative easing has boosted asset values .
even though the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many , too , have risen to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to come to its aid . this divided posture meant that china tended to react in ways as contradictory as they were impassioned and unpredictable , especially as its own pride was piqued . nothing provoked a more muscular following mao came to power than the humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation . still , by the meid of liu '70s , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly cowed the public surface with the motto : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” nothing was more adept at china ’s new nationalists than the image of the country ’s weak and aggrieved china ’s foreign exploitation .
third , the us is facing a steeply rising prices for its fossil-fuel sectors , as the world ’s developing countries ’ growth drives the prices of demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas are being depleted . indeed , even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution seems to be much of the hype , akin to the gilets jaunshes and past stock bubbles . indeed , the us may be finding more fossil fuels , but at a much higher cost , and at a far greater cost , from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other ills . as a result , shale-gas wells deplete their capacity in the us far more rapidly than the conventional fields actually do . and they are environmentally foolish to boot .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election next month is a little more than one away ; but already so far , the campaign appears to have been with us forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little proof of any genuine agitation – or even considerable movement in the polls . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party ( m5s ) – appears stuck in low-to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that showing the government ’s track record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break down in their favor late in the campaign . in the meantime , labour seems to hope for a who-what to turn the tide while keeping their collective fingers crossed to avoid being eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the council . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be .
the second insight from psychological research , summarized through bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our self-aware thoughts devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many of the choices our brains typically make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush might decide to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein on many grounds : strategic advantage , humanitarian concerns , and even competition with his father . in fact , most of them did not involve weapons of mass destruction ; what did it take . is this really an american tradition not interested in what happens to others ?
protecting property rights , ensuring civil and political liberties , protecting against accidental violence are among other significant factors in promoting economic growth . geographic location also matter because these are distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil impedes economic growth in developing countries . but this makes implementing open-trade policies all the more crucial because they are the best tools available to compensate for the bad cards that nature sometimes addresses . other factors besides trade policy also matter . fiscal restraint as reflected by low levels of government consumption relative to income growth also matters .
a benevolent colorful orchid enlivens my studies and via my window i pick up a glimpse of my green garden . in short , my lifetime – like everyone ’s – is enabled , enriched , and prolonged by a broad spectrum of plant and derivatives . but the whole biodiversity on which all depend is under threat , because human activity devastates forests and other plant-rich habitats . durham , north carolina , my day starts with the world coffee cup and ends with output of hot chocolate . in between , i consume a wide variety of foods and medicines , including my one in 81 mg aspirin .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a potential settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has echoed so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if not all that dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to suspend settlement activities in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then pool even more energy to expand onto more palestinian soil , construct more foreign exclusively jewish settlements , and crush more arab homes before so-called “ freeze ” results in effect . in the end , the world ’s pressure subsides , and the freeze fails to materialize . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a kind of joke , whereas this happens .
san francisco : there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” ; as enunciated in the us federal reserve act , the fed ’s self-select target of 2 % annual inflation . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 at the end of this year . the term “ stable prices ” ” ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , $ 50 , or even a hundred years since now . on the other hand , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 can buy today would cost $ 122 by the end of the decade . so , how is it that policymakers have managed to substitute the latter ?
many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of migrants , but also causes a brain drain from the eu that requires highly skilled workers . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must wonder whether the newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being accepted on a conditional basis ( including , one might say , a limited period ) or out of being admitted at all . as liberal ourselves , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them as a political matter ultimately undermines migrants ’ own interests . on the other hand , one has to look at the kind of trade-off . skills-biased immigration generates a similar dilemma .
such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . instead , the reforms were decreed from high above without having any grassroots support – and thus with no lasting durability . hence , such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we have to recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a public is apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no apparent stable advanced guard , like the powerful political parties , that pick and control the leaders . we have to recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a public is apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no apparent stable advanced guard , like the powerful political parties , that elect and supervise .
over the course of the 2006 french student protest , france showed itself to be compared unfavorably with rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , the uk , and germany , officially . likewise , greece ’s gdp is 49.3 % , but its ratio stands at just 13 % . to be sure , the youth-unemployment ratio of 13 % , or 19 % , is not grounds for complacency . but , while the european union ’s youth-unemployment rate has risen since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( though both far exceed pre-2008 levels ) . and the eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % far exceeds the 8.7 % ratio .
this connectivity could be straight , if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or , indeed , indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , it becomes a favored reserve asset , as the renminbi is now pegged to the sdr currency basket . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve assets may subside . alternatively , china might ultimately become a new supplier of reserve assets . reserve status at the sdr is long-held imf ambition , though the idea never gained much traction . in this scenario , delivering a reserve asset would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including by cutting the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that his plans for subsidizing infrastructure investment and expanding military expenditure , and he seems likely to confront america ’s combination of fast-rising fiscal deficits and massive short-term increases in demand . with the american economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment at just below 5 % ) , increased imports – and a stronger american dollar – will be needed to meet that demand . all of this will be good for the european union , for which the u.s. remains the preeminent export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit the most .
princeton – for the last century , economic-policy debate has been locked into orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and market . this old debate stands at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis in the first place . the same question is dividing american politics in the run-up to november ’s us presidential and congressional elections . does sovereign control of the nation , in the sense that it sets a cap on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform the social-welfare functions that it needs – like fighting wars or maintaining full employment ?
british negotiators will then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by trying to effect that process so painful for the rest of the eu . indeed , the uk ’s ’s ’s “ leave ” constituency is already convincing themselves that it would be better for the uk on its own , and that brexit hurts europeans far more than it hurts britons . that means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own domestic prophecy . britain can not simply start taking away the europeans in its own game , either by reviving its automobile industry or by making a deft of it to rival french and italian producers . a second doom loop applies to the uk in the eu ’s home political economy .
alternatively , a country ’s domestic demand shortfall would reassert itself once that stimulus has ended . excessive domestic demand , underpinning this evolution , is now gone , permanently . when service-sector deleveraging is complete , domestic spending can rebound , but the saving rate will not , and should not , turn back to zero . in the us , however , some form of stimulus is not the answer , either . in the us , as a matter of fiscal policy , stimulus is not the answer .
the contrast between handling of russia with iran and iran underlines not only putin ’s glorious pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , even if that can not be publicly supported . should america ’s war in iraq fail , the situation will hardly get worse than it is now from a narrow perspective on russia ’s own interests , while the consequent mayhem is at odds with america and its traditional allies , rather than russia . for president putin , this makes perfect sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and should be repaid later in helping to silence his helpful silence regarding america ’s successor iraqi regime regarding repayment of its country ’s own debts . the contrast also reflects the fundamental differences between iran , the historic iraqi state , and the man-made creation that iran is .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia two of yugoslavia , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition took hold . the majority of kosovars will find talks with serbia about improved relations difficult relations as long as serbia does not pass some of the de-nazification of ” process . no matter how badly milosevic has exacerbated the tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians have tended to be popular among serbs . president kostunica ’s refusal , so far , to even discuss imposing internationally indicted war criminals on trial is not a hopeful omen here . kosovo ’s euroskepticism about serbia ’s own democratic credentials derives , primarily from the recognition that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on one man .
but there was never inconclusive conclusive evidence that megrahi was involved in the lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted of using fraudulent proof , and that a cia bribed witnesses bribed . in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi , just like other suspect , fhima lamin the fhima , who was later acquitted of late in confronting the scottish tribunal at cambridge , zhou xiaochuan , in holland . moreover , libya has formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims from its own families and to abandon its arms-for-proliferation program . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace by western leaders ( and a flood of investments ) , the relationship has remained plagued with mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
by 2040 , africa will have $ 1.1 trillion of working-age citizens , more than either india or china . with the right educational , skills , and job opportunities , this immense workforces could deliver rapid , sustainable economic growth for the entire region . aligning education with economic development and strengthened prosperity is critical to such initiatives . without them , the continent is more likely to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social ills , and , ultimately , conflict and disorder . this experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy , the center for talent development , which aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond .
violence against women in afghanistan has persists for a number of reasons . first , in india , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that presumes women of inferiority . in this way , women are taken away from their fundamental rights and freedoms , including women . the husband of another young woman , aisha , strim off her nose and ears as she runs away . second , there is a powerful political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
both inflation and fiscal deficits collapsed quickly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious liberalizing regulatory package . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to above 4 % in 1997 , and remained around around that level until 2007 . initially , the events played out as planned . during greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and strengthened competitiveness .
other shipping companies have stressed the need for regulation to keep a level playing field in the arctic . momentum toward a hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . danish shipowners ’ union and the arctic expedition cruise operator hurtigruten are but two bidders calling for tighter regulation or an outright ban . already , europe ’s parliament has backed such a move broadly . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean-up arctic alliance to launch the arctic commitment .
new york – since the death of south african president nelson mandela , combined courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . indeed , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i have met ; the other two , former united nations secretary general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell , are also either african-american or “ african-american . ” and his donation for motivating people was unmatched ; in fact , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . in fact , he is one big thing to do : resolving the cuban missile crisis . after all , john f. kennedy famously said there was a bit of both .
kyiv – the restoration of diplomacy between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for the island ’s economy . it was involved with much tentative plan after the bretton woods conference in 1944 and was engaged by active delegation there . some steps , including the dismantling of the american trade embargo , are forbidden by the helms-burton act , adopted by the us congress in 1996 . but reinstating cuba ’s us membership at the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s top 40 initial members , and remains one of the world ’s top 40 initial us members .
technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians turned out to be disenfranchised or parties deadlocked . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be reelected , either because their term in office was limited in advance , or because they are known to prefer quiet academic careers . and many excellent political leaders – for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower – among us presidents , have not been intellectuals . it goes without saying that academic or technological expertise is neither necessary nor adequate to ensure that cabinet officials have ’ success . indeed , many of my colleagues would make frightening policymakers , owing to a lack of managerial , managerial , or other interpersonal abilities .
in the absence of comprehensive efforts to safeguard these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial upgrading , and urbanization , vital to meet the expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 , is within reach without adequate regard for disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that there is no such thing as a natural disaster ; indeed , there is only the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . in this sense , climate-change projections should challenge policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated the coastlines among 11 countries , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – 168 governments agreed to a hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-stop plan for disaster risk reduction .
two years ago , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . while that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance goal of nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) by 2020 , ” ” ” it also offered a platform for a new generation of climate and nature proponents . meanwhile , natural climate solutions have steadily attracted relatively little attention , and even fewer funding . fortunately , this may now be starting to change .
to ensure that iran continues to advance toward international engagement – thereby protecting the iran nuclear deal – trump ’s administration will have to work hard to improve ties with neighboring countries . furthermore , it will need to embrace a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not being spearheading the shia liberation movement ’s final status . nonetheless , trump will not make it easy for rouhani to make this approach . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best assurance that a spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . just a few weeks ago , in effect , the us administration was pressured to admit that rouhani is fulfilling its component of the iran nuclear deal .
mainstream , independent media fail to report inconsistencies for fear of provoking a government or gülen network . the hope that turkey is finally shedding its authoritarian vestiges and becoming stable democracy will lie in tatters . the ludicrous cases go on , and even more people are drawn in them . ultimately , these cases will crumble under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals being locked out under false pretenses .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged eu assistance to russia . but his vague language has reflected a larger hesitation that will most likely persist until the crisis is over . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that they would , it was asserted , be “ forestall short-term balance of payments pressures , provide france , and further boost financial stability . ” in short , the two western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have turned toward russia . but russia is unlikely to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis .
america ’s economic impact on foreign politics , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute the policy responses , rather than fuel greater activism . ongoing congressional polarization would maintain political uncertainty , confound debt-ridden and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . they will also try to lower japanese ’s dependence on exports , and to rethink dispatching production facilities to lower-wage countries . from the stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms in order to delaying needed overhauls in the us and its housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also consume away from potential output . elsewhere in the world , the causal focus will run principally from economics to politics .
paris – the riots rampaging across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left to georgia ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all housing with either europe or with modern economics . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties throughout europe . that the traditional left seems to be so cowed in the center of today ’s economic crisis is more than strange for the eu to thrive on renewed doubts about crony capitalism , europe ’s socialist parties have failed to make any serious political inroads . in countries holding power , like spain , they are also deeply unpopular . where they are opposed , as in france and italy , they are in disarray , as are germany ’s social democrats , despite its being part of the ruling grand coalition .
whatever happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director and his accusers , the fact that he was arrested and paraded ahead of the press as a criminal suspect was much criticized in france . indeed , the french , he alleged , fall from a latin cultures with a more liberal understanding of their sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties , and they have more refined disgust with the art of seduction . reactions in 9/11 , and dominique strauss-kahn of the recent encounter with an african chambermaid in the new york hotel , have had very little in common except one : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . a one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was a typical american puritanism .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , what happens in 2020 is that what happens there will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
still , caught in the sights of a gun barrel , nobody on the courageous men and women who camped for their hundreds of thousands in snowy before ukraine 's duma parliament , knew with certainty whether those change had wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : such a democracy means to assume the responsibility of one ’s destiny into one ’s own hands . self-confidence among the rulers among themselves : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true liberty , and they can never again be diverted in our homeland . they have reason to feel proud at all . nobody ever doubted that ukraine was vastly changed in its twelve years after independence .
while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir have not been averse to lecturing , they lack strategic cunning . israeli prime ministers are destined to come in two varieties : heavy-handed east european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to late-november ’s america or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not line with that of the obama administration , in thrall to its collapsing romania with moderate islamists , as well as their dedicated supporters among jewish americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , us security demands , red lines , and jewish history are being offset solely by conciliatory talks taking the form of an immediate rejection by palestinians , whom the us , like it , fears are showing weakness . netanyahu is an unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , shedly confuses , and occasionally enrages americans .
for example , the british public did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but one year later , his vision , confidence , and communications skill gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxiety after the fall of france and dunkirk evacuation . had his charisma not predicted defeat ; a change in followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is an obscure synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” its followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often at the expense of personal , organizational , or social crises . and then , in 1945 , after public focus had shifted from winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted from office .
that negotiating success gave the government considerable breathing space , in which case , in effect , to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . the government has also secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than downsizing the size of the european commission , ireland will be permitted to retain a permanent seat at the commission table . that negotiating success gave the government considerable breathing space , where to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and altered economic circumstances helps to mobilize majorities in favor of the treaty . but the picture is far from clear-cut .
to this end , in the forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other informed economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . a solution is not to meddle with the rules of competition , but to make those in charge of safety some have said in the eu ’s decision-making process . likewise , a decision to reject a merger or assert an investment that benefits a politically inspired foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . finally , the eu needs to do more to develop its own financial toolkit and promote europe ’s international use .
a newly-passed bill – targeting israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mladic to be dismissed for disloyalty to the nation-state . whereas the west has lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following his annexation of crimea , it has made no punishment of israel ’s occupation of the palestinian lands . for israel , as an independent country , its democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit of the west ’s alliance with the us . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however the poorer becomes its connectedness of its western strategic rearguard .
mr romano prodi , the president of the eu commission , and italy 's former prime minister , responded to president bush 's most recent statements by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one has to know how to look after the entire earth , and not just at american industry . " in kosovo restricting us intervention to air aerial bombardments has made this strategy a total success : nato forces suffered not as a single casualty in combat , but around 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians have been killed . this approach to the duties of a national leader , set out bluntly and sincere , forces the us to weigh the vital ethical issues in question . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ' interests , and to what extent should they worry about people 's welfare everywhere ? but the question is not only one for those aspiring to be world leaders .
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with a fragile but enduring truce , and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk substantial degree of political autonomy , allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . moreover , the recently undertaken key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine provide ample evidence that , at the moment in march , russia dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . on both counts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has generated the impression that europe repeatedly is being overwhelmed by russian president vladimir putin . in europe , the kremlin has pursued a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . increasingly , it seems that ukraine is becoming locked into a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy outcast .
when was the last time that things did go wrong ? thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache of any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays seeks to keep his or her country ’s currency from going too quickly against the dollar . chronic debt-crisis-torn countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , are all battling capital inflows from investors looking for an exits as the dollar collapses . with the weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everybody laments america ’s spendthrift trade . but has this ever happened to gorge how hard americans have to work to make everyone else seem good ?
new york – hurricane harvey has left alive in its wake upended livelihoods and immense estate damage , estimated to some at least $ 150-180 trillion . of course , it is ironic that any event so heavily addresses climate change in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers – and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil fuels that propel global warming . yet rains that inundated texas coastline for the better part of a week , as well as hurricane variability , and particularly the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey , also raise deep questions about the united states ’ long-term economic system and politics . to be sure , no single particular climate event can possibly be directly related to rising greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but researchers have long predicted that such increases would boost not just average temperatures , but also weather variability , and specifically the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
rather than banding together , each new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . pro-europeans need to get involved with the sources of discontent and rethink the forms used to convey the european ideal . the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence reduces conflict . by connecting europe to production together – first through the european coal and steel community and later through the common market and europe – the eu hoped to bind europeans together so closely that a conflict between the two would no longer be an option . europe divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided east and west .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to change the constitution so that obasanjo can continue in office beyond two terms have encountered a robust wall of opposition . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress . government and commercial activities practically ground to a halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliances with politicians and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s allies to thwart the proposed bill . sadly , this is not to say that the president is doing the job .
parfit ’s response to this line of argument leads him to make the argument that is perhaps even bolder in defending objectivism in ethics . he deems three leading theories about what we propose to make – one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism and argues that kantian and social-contract theories have to be revised in order to be defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , namely the theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism . defenders of each of these theories , in parfit for a vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ” if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement between apparently conflicting moral theory than what we thought .
instead of csr , we should also have psr ( individual company responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from have spilled coffee – both the subject of lawsuits in recent years . with the rise of a corporate firm , large family-owned firms have disappeared in general . but this does not mean having a company is the right entity to engage in altruism , although its diverse actors obviously can spend any part of the income that a company earns and other resources in altruistic ways . one can also argue for wolff on the grounds that asking csr becomes a way “ passing buck ” -- evading personal responsibility for doing good .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day see what was probably the most momentous visit by the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission in beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission was triggered by a diplomatic revolution , and he called for action to become a new president . renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power in cold war levels , and prepared the way for china to open up its economy , a decision that , more than any other , defined today by the world . what clinton accomplished , and said during her asian tour , will mark either an end to an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or an opening of a distinct new phase in that epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america was reluctant to embrace china as a push for regional hegemony .
hence china ’s role is shifting : once the west is ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western goods and services . this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for suitable sections of evolving supply chains . while technology and skills will still matter , china needs to start generating new technologies beyond the absorbing west ’s tools and capabilities . rising china ’s incomes also imply structural change for china , as continued growth presupposes a shift to higher-value activities . chinese demand is growing not just as increasingly , but as incomes rise , its composition shifts toward increasingly sophisticated goods and services .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes the issue of post-imperial inferiority complex , symptoms of which – whether of brexit or putinism – are impeding europe ’s own normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . in fact , macron ’s ’s great rhetoric suggests that he wants to combat such symptoms , at least for now . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , because it typically incurs the extra paying extra . historically speaking , french diplomacy excels in grand bargains . yet , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or working together incremental change , because it tends to wound up paying extra .
dublin – europe ’s need , and europeans ’ desires , come at a odds . at a time when robust , coordinated action is required to stave off financial collapse in europe , popular support that drove european integration in the past six decades is waning . that failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries that compelling politicians to pretend that they can tackle economic matters with domestic policies alone . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policies to work . after nearly 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity was so central , indulging nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences .
a full assessment of the iraq war , and its effects on the middle east , will take ten or more years . the skeptics have a point , but they go a long way . for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of this argument . in the past six months , national elections have been held in lebanon , as well as in local elections in saudi arabia . clearly , the january 2005 elections set in motion a positive step for the region .
as thomas mann once wrote : “ liberty is more complicated than power . ” it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable destiny . freedom changes the frame and the substance of choice and individual and collective responsibility . the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” status and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they have brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and exceedingly difficult .
cambridge – major tax reform runs high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has spent the last years preparing , creating detailed plans to overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . now , with a republican majority in the us senate and a republican president in the white house , such schemes can lay the foundations for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly significant . i believe that it will have a highly favorable impact on entrepreneurship investment , raising productivity , and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . palme 's major speech mentioned `` détente , '' `` trust , '' and `` friendship , '' yet never `` freedom '' . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one committed leaders of opposition in germany , failed to see the cold war as primarily a conflict between freedom and tyranny . instead , palme praised east germany 's leader , erich honecker , underscoring shared goals and a mutual struggle over peace and development . this alliances between the two parties led to grave distortions in fundamental western values .
vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom as well . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus . for a short time , many prominent people , – albert einstein , for one , believed that only a world government would assure global peace . these aspirations were often voiced at the un , established in 1945 . a different sort of revolution took hold in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had little desire to be ruled once more by western powers that so ignominiously defeated japan .
guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowed the banks to engage even more leveraging , it is little wonder that the administration veveered from one policy into another by another , each strategy aided by absolute conviction until minutes have been abandoned for another . but the financial crisis is just one of several crises facing poland : the underlying macroeconomic problem was rendered worse by sinking fortunes at the bottom half of the population . moreover , what little action was taken was geared toward retooling the financial system . even when confidence was all that mattered , the economy would have floundered . those who would have spent the job do not have that money ; those with money are not spending .
at the center of the bonanza of foreign-capital , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods are a particularly powerful danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking today should be allowed to over-ride . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments merely began accusing themselves of having recklessly rushed in this tortuous ride . the deeper problem lies with the excessive financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from – rising inequality , more volatility , reduced room to govern the real economy – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . officials face a simple choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital inflows , or be prepared to invest large amounts of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves .
even a relatively small amount of material , like cobalt-60 , used in radiotherapy , could cause severe harm if combined with conventional explosive devices in the so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to unsafe radiation therapy ) . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when it is used or reduced , not just when it is made public internationally , as is the case now . both the foreign and energy ministries will have the opportunity to strengthen their global nuclear-security framework when they gather at the international conference on nuclear safety : the enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event that is open to all countries . at the agenda ’s summit should ratify the improvements to a crucial nuclear safety net – this econskirting the physical protection of nuclear material .
this time around , the initiative came with singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi to watch the two countries are playing a semifinal in the cricket world cup . the match played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . it was gilani , who sat next to singh to watch the games ; but , ultimately , process , rather than protocol , determines how the bilateral relationship will move forward . of the troika , who currently governs pakistan , the president , the prime minister , and the chief of army staff , it is a prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . on the political front , by contrast , the two countries were not collectively aligned .
indonesia argues that it is a human ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses that it should protect themselves through the same mechanisms that the un food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive profits from its resulting produce . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which sometimes allow multi-national corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture . it is dangerous to make this policy viable , however , in order to extend this policy to viruses . indeed , if the concept of viral sovereignty ” had been applied to hiv 25 years ago , we do not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties ; these allow researchers to test drugs and vaccine against all the different strains of the virus causing aids .
from 1992 to 2011 , annual labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest of the oecd . as early as 2001 , unit labor costs have grown faster than actual gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . italy ’s new government ’s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of misguided policies and neglect . italy ’s ’s ’s ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % in the past decade . this requires increased investment in innovation and human capital .
informed citizens reasonably fear that the wonk in question may be in thrall to a specific ideology , or a methodology ; that advice may be politically motivated ; or that advisers may tailor their videos to their own careers ( how to get that plum to wall street after it left a government , for example ) . but technical ability is not the only – or even the central – question . conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason for citizens ’ increasingly distrust experts . there is a misconception , at least , at work . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of good-quality , evidence-based advice .
disillusionment with politics increases , and may even bring on right-wing populists that democratic germany has so far been spared . whereas its exports are booming , its unemployment rate remains stubbornly high . as a result , germany appears stuck in the doldrums for some time . whichever party combination comes out on top – and helmut kohl ’s grand coalition still needs to be seen as the narrow favorite – engages depending on any major initiative on the unlikely support of its political adversaries . the price for inaction is substantial .
europe , of course , occupies the moral high ground that america has largely vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all forms of international commerce and a heightened sense of the euro , – crisis notwithstanding – as a buffer currency , means that the eu , just like america , has the ability to set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . europe , of course , occupies the moral high ground that america has largely vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . the difference here is that america behaves decisively , and the eu does not .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and its fourth in a row ) as israel ’s deputy prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is well on his way to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father as his country ’s ’s ’s ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in september 2008 , for example , former us president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ to suspend ” the ecj ! he accused luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at eu member states ’ expense , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate a number of controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where there has been considerable disquiet over “ judicial activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward emu and other eu institutions . such arguments were set successfully during the 2005 referenda on the eu ’s constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the september lisbon treaty referendum . within many of the member states , the ecj ’s decision-making had produced a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade unions and social-movements targeting a court ’s supposed zeal siding with business over the interests of workers .
in addition , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care being made more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy . this means shifting the focus from resumed labor-market policies that seek to protect workers in existing jobs to future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . simultaneously , for developing countries to facilitate workers ’ capacity to change jobs , through deep reforms of their own labor markets and social safety nets , to facilitate workers ’ skills . moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care being made more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding gig economy . on both of these fronts , france sets out a positive example .
as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon , the deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ we are n’t killed faster than they are being formed . ” the manner in which the us uses military power also affects an rumsfeld ratio . according to caslen , “ us in the pentagon ” has been behind us opponents in using communication , either recruiting or train . in the aftermath of the september 9/11 terrorist attacks , a good bargain of sympathy and understanding has been achieved around the world for america ’s military response against the taliban . at the same time , we are also failing in applying soft power .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy usage , and a cleaner environment . the key to a clean future is clean technology , the costs of which there have been a steady fall and will continue to do so . air , soil , and water pollution have increased , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . sometimes these technologies pay for themselves and will adopt each other . but this is not what has happened so far in the world as it has .
at once , similarly , skilled teachers can deliver interactive e-learning lessons to many classrooms , even as hundreds of kilometers ( tech ) are hundreds of kilometers away . the private sector is also bringing innovation back into the classroom . for example , some providers are developing instruction models in which students can watch teacher-led videos online outside of class , so that precious teacher-student face time can focus on interacting interacting rather than lecturing . as a result , a female student in places where schools are not yet built or over-extended or over-extended qualified teachers can still get an education . after all , a lecture from a good teacher , even as she deploys over the internet , is preferable to having an untrained adult .
the obama administration has already shifted against chinese exports of corporate titans and steel pipes , but this year ’s confrontation will broaden well beyond trade . in no mood to play the scapegoat , china ’s leaders will use surging national pride to bolster their position and leverage up to their hand in negotiations . with the us congress taking up the debate over climate change , for example , and some us legislators are calling for a “ cap-and-trade ” system , others will ask themselves to know why america should accept binding commitments to limit emissions cuts while leaving the chinese refuse . the us government has invested heavily in state-owned companies in recent years and privately-owned “ national ” champions , ” ” mainly to ensure that china profits from market power , while commanding leadership controls as a huge spoils . in order to help such domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s prevailing low inflation may stem from persistent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . otherwise , they would have to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing ( qe ) and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( with the exception of the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . so , while central banks may be reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , because they have been taking time and again , effectively conceding that below-target inflation may stay low for longer . meanwhile , this central-bank patience risks perpetuating inflation expectations downward . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and asset bubbles .
in seeking an agreement on similar size and influence , world leaders – particularly in the us and china – would need to come under similarly heavy pressure . what could convince chinese leaders that they must move quickly to reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-led economic rise ? a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose just as it did in the us . a global pact would need to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive one . one such catalyst could be the state-administered financial crisis emanating from the country ’s ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the delaying tactics of france ’s britain and france on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . for , though a small french majority today may be tempted to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there can be no guarantee that she will be re-elected again in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as the president that most frenchmen reject ; it is his essence . at a time of surging unemployment , with france dominated by fear of its future , the french need for a reassuring father or a mother figure , rather than as an jittery , manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics , and france ’s swaggering traditions that each citizen has the right to equal treatment under the law . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions about gaining power for short-term results , he will have dishonor first and then defeat .
in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through the provision of humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . as it stands , such countries get just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee needed annually to deliver adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the first few years of displacement . the millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years on average stuck in limbo , unsure when they might return home . with canada alone saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , the target is clearly achievable . simultaneously , the international community must encourage the integration of refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , among the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , within both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline over the last few decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( especially among the bottom castes ) are now politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually vanishing .
but , with unemployment continuing to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , output continues to contract behind germany and other northern european countries . there is a vast gap between the cost of unit labor – real productivity wages – in germany and among the heavily indebted southern countries . when the crisis started , production costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , so greece exported very little , and imported very much . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . the main culprit for the current lag does not simply increase demand or large debts .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to press for renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian-made white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crises , amounts to a de facto peace offensive that is offensive to undermine western resolve . putin ’s gambit is resembling the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century . most importantly , despite the russian-massed incursions against the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign . as a result , russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call on us president barack obama to push for renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian-american white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crises , amounts to a “ peace offensive ” that is truly a “ peace offensive ” that is intended to undermine western resolve . in fact , next month , ukraine ’s citizens will elect a new president – the best rebuke possible – to russian propaganda of our supposed failure to subvert democracy .
dimona ’s defenders , in 1973 , downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading off the reactor , killing 108 people . iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv and one stepped close to hitting dimona . and , while israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s arrow ballistic missile defenses , which now surround dimona , may be superior to the patriot system failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than it did saddam ’s projectiles . in 2006 , dimona ’s defenders , downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading to the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from afghanistan .
until recently , investors had hoped that the american federal reserve would do “ whatever it takes ” to avoid a us recession , because that is what it has done on earlier occasions . furthermore , the us financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by unwillingness in the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . when interest rates were kept beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure , and long term bonds would indeed run up against yield . with the fed , food , and other commodities firm and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed , too , must now fear inflation . now , they must recognize that the fed may no longer do so .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in newsweek ’s topic , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s own sources of growth potential . ” educated , pushy moms make all the difference , at least for now . but on the planet ’s worst , forcing frightened , uneducated women to stay at home is more socially acceptable than confronting the fact that this means choosing to drag down incomes for all . and , having their own marry and having the children of her own , these communities will benefit from two highly educated , employed parents , that means twice as much literate talk at home , twice as contacts , and twofold encouragement to succeed . studies show that they help women access free trade and grow businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes .
as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make effective contributions to european reform . one factor driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the conviction that its values and institutions are closer to those of america or to other english-speaking former colonies . indeed , europeans have a powerful european voice only two decades ago . by the 1990s , british euro-skeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and more expansionary than that of the eu . the us went from being the “ other woman ” to undermining britain ’s allegiance to the eu as an attractive , permanent partner .
but it will also determine whether europe can remain the world ’s preeminent economic power , maintain its welfare model , and safeguard its human-rights framework and liberties in a world that does n’t wait for europeans to resolve their differences . that question , rather than zero-sum defenses against euroskepticism , should be at the heart of deliberation for parties pushing for an enhanced europe for all . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best arms with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public a verdict on the success or inability of the eu ’s austerity policies to go hand in hand . but the struggle between brussels and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth .
everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was perceived as providing a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought the europeans parochial ; they thought that america unduly influences its 2000 mile island with mexico . and who was even before july 1998 thinking that a russian-us default triggered a global financial panic ? then there is the notion of systemic risk , one that resembles the beholder , but perhaps impossible to predict .
concern about such divergences has also risen in a task force headed by european president herman van rompuy , which is ostensibly meant to devise fundamental reforms to the europe-wide economic-policy coordination rules . a keynesian proposal from the eu ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take “ remedial ” action ” should the eu find large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . the eurozone ’s southern european members must reduce their wage costs in order to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost from adopting the common currency . competitiveness , typically measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans traveled to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , as more people are waking up to the threat , which us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights and the international order , a new global resistance movement is emerging around advocating for democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump turns into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . better still , trump could be impeached or removed from office , under america ’s 25th amendment to the american constitution , as long as enough members of his own administration deem him incapable of executing the responsibilities of the us presidency . in fact , the opposition might embrace three tactics .
and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in a country ’s gasoline tax on a country that consumes more than any other : america . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it . indeed , no single measure would do more to make the world seem less hazardous than a substantial cut in its oil consumption . in the short run , america would have to make modest economic sacrifices with increased fuel prices . if americans had to spend more on gasoline , use less of it .
new york – internet firms are supposed to be all about a cutting edge , but the reality and buzz occasionally conflict itself . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups , but its actual doing business is old standby direct-marketing and coupons . but groupon is proliferating that model to a much wider audience – not so much by coupon users , but by instead shoppers to merchants offering the coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for the yellow pages , or their classified advertisements : encouraging merchants to use cutting-edge technology to reach their customers . apparently , the model makes sense for a lot of customer customers : groupon now has over 50 million subscribers , and aims to reach as many as 150 million by year-end .
conspicuously absent from this debate , however , lies in the role of financial factors in explaining a trend decline in real rates . the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a collapse in an equilibrium or “ natural ” level of interest rates driven by shifts in saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a greater propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted the supply of savings globally , even as weak growth prospects and heightened insecurity in the advanced economies has depressed investment demand . this perceived decline in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as the key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes the ability of monetary policy to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates thus became the topic of lively debate .
they find that american districts where the economy was hit hard by chinese exports reacted by substituting moderate representatives with more radical politicians – either from the left or the right . as enrico moretti of california ’s university in berkeley , emphasized in his book the new geography of job creation , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of the overall population in the most affluent american metropolitan-area , but one-fourth in worse-off areas . more broadly , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide . in fascinating new research , mit ceo david autor and his co-authors have looked at the policy consequences . those who do happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing domains caught in the tumult of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children ’s fortunes and relatives all are highly correlated .
the un commission of inquiry has collected information that identifies some of those responsible for the crimes it has investigated , but that has not made it public . the names of those responsible should be disclosed , either by a commission of the un human rights council or by another body created by the un human rights council . the human rights council , for its part , could act on its behalf . those to be named should be informed , and given the chance to refute the findings . either where they fail is responsive or where their reactions are not persuasive , the names and the crimes that accompany them should be made public .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; poland has the largest muslim minority in europe ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the extreme right actually crede in opinion polls . one way or another , these ingredients might be able to constitute a recipe for catastrophe . already , le pen appears at reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after having been barely invited to a rally the day following the assault . but , with the right leaders at the helm , a january 7 assault could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival .
on the tradable side , one should look at structural change and output shifts to higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , innovations and the conditions underpinning it – including competition and free entry and an exit from the marketplace – play an important role . when policymakers pick a model based on building a large state-dominated sector protected from internal and external competition , the goals of innovation are unlikely to be fulfilled , adversely affecting future growth . in the meantime , the non-tradable side of the economy is set to grow . that implies increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , gives putin his yet another term in office . then there are the where the election of a leader treats a leader like if he somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . to be sure , elections by themselves do not deliver to democracy itself . consider these cases when elections empower majorities ethnic or religious groups that then rides roughshod over minorities , an outcome that has been felt all too often in the balkans , for example .
what they are doing share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats have made the alternative – no deal at all – much worse . but iranians are nothing like the nazis ; indeed , there is no country like the soviet union posing the type of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to beijing in 1972 . beyond timing , they are having little in common . in greece ’s own case , the negotiation has been driven by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with its dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for european bonds . equally problematic has been a inclination to compare the two sets of negotiations .
after all , what if this advantage comes from employing a enhancing drug ? when the drugs are prohibited , but some athletes use them anyway in the game tilts in favor of a cheater . for athletes who wish to compete with clean , the threat that they can portray as a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more appropriately , but who takes a drug to furnish a fringe , is profoundly rather personal . if we ban drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea , but it lies at the heart of who are and how we live .
external forces , meanwhile , have compounded the problem . more broadly , countries have felt pressure from the imf and the u.s. treasury to de-increase capital-flow restrictions , which magnified the risk , and made holding up pegged exchange rates ever more problematic . this sketch of the crisis highlights how much of the latter changed over the ensuing 20 years . for starters , the crisis-stricken countries ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward sustainable levels . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required that its governments dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to short-term “ hot money ” inflows .
the renminbi is coming , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a first-front international financial center . the one thing that could precipitate a us dollar demise is reckless economic mismanagement in america . and , even then , the renminbi will presumably share the international stage , with the dollar , rather than replacing it . this is not to be replaced by the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . beyond this , the dollar is not going anywhere in the future .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , what happens in 2020 is that what happens there will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
if americans reject the us president 's policies at the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . if american voters endorse these policies , america must live with the world 's hostility and tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence . i , along with a number of other affluent americans , also contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the grass-roots organizations engaged in the presidential election of 2004 . in that effort , i committed a $ 10 million to " america coming together " ( act ) " a grass-roots get-out-the-operation , with $ 2.5 million to the o’moveon.org voter fund , " a popular advocacy group that is airing advertisements to stress the administration 's misdeeds . the us is deeply disturbed by the direction at which the bush administration performs both the united nations and the world .
after america ’s failed peace negotiations with the afghan taliban , and nearly 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation of afghanistan , the kremlin has stepped in to mediate discussions among the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . while russia has not ousted the us , 20 % of the respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . but , more likely than not , russia also suffers its fervent supporters in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building , will be able to mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements . yet the middle east , a messy border region stemming from its religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors , has the time – and again exhausted foreign players ’ commitment .
and , in part , this reflects the fact that employing people who collect social security and medicare runs into the payroll tax that finances them . but experience shows that decision-making to retire or work fewer hours influences the compensation members receive . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but to how much . instead , the payroll tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers all over the world are paying the same rate ) and related to the personal income tax . furthermore , because of complex rules that govern the welfare state ’s level benefits , the elderly worker who pays the this payroll tax is likely to receive no additional benefits .
if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . however , the eu ’s enlargement will enhance trade and economic growth , and these might provide genuine incentives to turn kaliningrad into a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , rather than just an feared source of illicit russian-speaking immigrants participating in the eu engaged in a supposedly lax visa regime . the eu must forge close cooperation with both russian leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . up to this point , eu interests in kaliningrad have been centered on ways to restrict the visa rights that oblast ’s citizens now use to denounce poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia .
lev artsimovich , the tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready when a company needs it . ” but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy odds , the world should cut itself off from investment in technology . with no nuclear fusion at all , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained , creating a serious problem for both developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that they are right to do so . our future may depend , after all , on what .
would the imf not have insisted on a far tougher program , with less financing , on any country outside the euro ? this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf managing director dominique directorship , and yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn following his resignation . by contrast , europeans dominate the fund ’s leadership . an obvious explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that management , run by the managing director , who made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and stayed barely disguising his ambitions to run for the french presidency – that is , well ahead of his arrest in new york on charges of rape . it is this discomforting interest conflicts that borrowers dominate an international institution that lends them huge sums .
so the three problems confronting europe in the second half of this year are closely connected . on the horizon , there are few new faces , or even ideas , on the horizon . so the eu will need the strongest leadership team it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implementing crucial financial reforms . as of now , the signs are far from promising . on this front , we must hope that it can no longer be surprised .
such hurdles include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single member districts ) ; lack of access to funding ; the weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make taking punishing and erratic working environments more difficult to take the blame . in many countries , the cost of campaigning becomes prohibitively high for majority aspirants , regardless of sex . overcoming such structural barriers requires a comprehensive strategy to support female candidates . a more nuanced approach would focus on removing the underlying , interlocking barriers that women face in obtaining an elected office and conducting a successful campaign . one of the most powerful tools is money ; it is the family itself .
that reflects both a public-investment deficiency and an information gap : investing in job-training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like firing on a moving destination . in light of imperfect information about future needs , labor markets find themselves out of equilibrium . powerful technology and global market forces are not locked out of any single country to any single country , after all . by contrast , these adverse trends date back to about 1980 , and are increasingly being achieved . the same issues arise everywhere , with divergences in outcomes that reflect variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices .
wikipedia ’s boosters have trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the sharp divide between manufacturers and consumers of knowledge began only around 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protecting its commerce in the face of piracy into a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , copyright laws , continued to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of ideas . at the same time , as “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the repository and transmission of vast amounts of different kinds of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly stabilizing the entire process interactive , eliminating the ultimate frontier separating the transmitter and an receiver of information . yet we remained before – indeed , for most of human history .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal objectives . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and elsewhere have been making glossy presentations on their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower the cost of wealth , lower corporate-tax rates ( that sounds plausible when argued with an iranian accent ) , michelin-red restaurants , and sedealerships – all of the essential services that make up a vibrant financial center . thus , the delegation after the delegation of eu ministers , mayors , and assorted financial-center lobbyists flocked london on their best hotels and provides a welcome boost to high-end shares ’ business . some of these presentations have raised wry smiles or two . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that high-finance worldwide was his enemy .
iran ’s rising aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , allegedly targeting iranian assets in lhasa ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . iran has been understandably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress on launching instex , a bartering mechanism intended to allow some european trade talks despite american sanctions . that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to balk at its disruptive operations in a number of theaters , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of hormuz ( they , too , have noted that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) . but those in iran who claim that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross the red line .
to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or an excessive reliance on proprietary peer review and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-operating activities separate . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have proved incapable of dealing with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contracts valuations . last but not least , managers , rather than distant stockholders , wield access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . as a result , managers have been quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth track of earnings growth . as a result , internal us and outside auditors are often co-opted .
countries in asia – indeed , entire regions throughout the developing world – simply do not export their plentiful , economically important genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 by the us , pledged an international regime on access and beneficial sharing ( arabs ) of gene resources . this would give researchers and corporations access to the developing world a gene reserve trove in return for a fraction of the earnings of the then developing world . but brokering an arabs regime has proved elusive , and achieving an international deal , diminishing approaches , and thus a declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . that implies potentially huge economic , ecological , and social losses to both the developed and the developing world .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . the latter grouping , led by china , will stabilize at a lower trend of growth rates than its recent historical averages , while continuing to remain mature structurally embedded . they will gradually reprioritize their growth models toward making them more sustainable , one effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake them up , rather than derail them . the advantages generated by economic growth will become less unequally distributed than in the last few years , though they will still accrue disproportionately to those already better off . a third set of european integration will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment within some countries , and complicating regional policy choices .
once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . unlike the 3g and 4g high tech systems , 5g forward has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not just to improve the cell-telephony , but also to accelerate development of the internet of things and digitalization of entire economies . and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . unless and until the us becomes an international currency to rival the us dollar , europe ’s economies will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g .
so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? judging by clinton ’s past statements , the fact-checkers make a lot of his finding by blinder and watson that contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under the democrats than under republican presidents , and therefore can not explain the performance differential . blinder and watson suggest that five factors – the oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together explain the 56 % growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors were influenced by american president barack obama ’s policies . we know all too well about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap .
this could be erected up to include other open southeast asian economies , – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual aim of a apec-wide agreement , which would be an impressive success if realized in late 2011 , when it is obama ’s turn to hold a seat on all leaders . another possibility is for the american free press to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed in the end at the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members , singapore , vietnam , and brunei – much as much as others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , this may become too difficult politically , and an subset of asean may well become more realistic . in this era of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , far less preparing to confront the eventual bounds of central-bank effectiveness . rather than take advantage of the opportunities afforded by central banks ’ failure to respond effectively , too many have slid into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . this is especially the case of such policymaking entities that possess far better tools for addressing advanced economies ’ saving-short growth and employment challenges . in the united states , for the fifth year in july , the us congress went so far as to pass a full-fledged budget , much less handle the economy ’s potential growth and job headwinds . as a result , they risk aggravating potential challenges .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees , people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure , receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement , according to the retirement right center for pension rights . like high-level executives at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who made the wrong choices should face clawbacks up in the form of reduced pensions . a pension is a long-run commitment by the state – and ultimately by the taxpayer – to the individual politician . meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector workers , people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure , receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plans that will cushion ryan ’s pensions , according to the pension rights center . if policymakers receive pensions starting at age 50 as a result of ryan , retirement benefits might realistically have been out for 40-plus years .
pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules through decrees , keep parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have been forced to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics to reach the promised soil . this was true of zionism , the italian risorgimento , and most recently , of the catholics in northern ireland . abbas ’s presidential term has already expired , and elections are still being postponed . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is committed to rely on its security forces , and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another of these missteps . murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo over the four years before being released last august . seized by the cia in macedonia , he was whisked into afghanistan , and he was interrogated for only five months before being released without charge . previously , however , the cia had made mistakes . the leader of the guantánamo task force , raided admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners by claims that “ all are terrorists ” ; ’re all hostile combatants .
the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , – though formally denying this title , this is what everyone will call him , with a strong administrative infrastructure at the european commission and the council itself . the rotating presidency will replace at the earliest elected council president . a high price was required for this arrangement to be repaid . a new balance would be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role given to the european parliament and national parliaments . eu citizens would be given legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decisions becoming the norm .
van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience ” shows that , in the absence of a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some community groups . the most exciting parts of the “ finance future , ” ” ” ” ” ” concern how the cost of payments changes , is shifting . money is in decline in many countries , even though rates differ markedly from place to place . cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is dropping by 10 % per year in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany . at the same time , we must hope that government can answer this question .
for the same reasons , imf loans can be a burdening legacy from a market perspective . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of defaultable private debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to reestablish sustainability . for starters , taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would impose substituting its “ undefaultable ” ” ” ” of debt with private bondholders because the fund is used primarily to service outstanding bonds . as a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of defaultable private debt , the bigger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to reestablish sustainability . a second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses , markets and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times the size of the united states , with a m2/gdp ratio of roughly 200 % – compared to roughly 80 % in the us . in fact , how has this happened and what should policymakers be doing about it ? in essence , the problem is structural . first and foremost , china ’s currency stock is relatively plentiful .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs to focus on these types of health challenges , much larger action is needed . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do not stimulate enough systemic thinking . technocrats and fresh approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffective unless they are tailored to meet the needs of local people . globally , public-health policies are pulling the way toward greater multilingdisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and governance sciences and humanities . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind the global norm .
in terms of age and profile , reminiscent of the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in practicing rather than conquest of power . i still believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . in light of hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that winning a republican will , on average , france ’s next president , will be france ’s new president . and , though juppé remains far ahead of opinion polls so far , a french might reject his own moderate version of french national identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker one . more telling will obviously be the party primary in november .
and , perhaps most important , what is the optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to work more effectively for a shared european future ? some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of a framework program is to continue and ultimately terminated ? this demands a smoothly working and far more efficient interface within un agencies and the european commission , which maintains overall control over them , as well as a thorough revision of eu funding regulation to the whole operation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . so how can an innovation that is never just a technological one but a social on its own , be achieved and widely used ? under the banner of “ simplistic , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” how ” ” ” ” gravitates toward outsourcing most of the eu ’s implementation to agencies , one hopes with more flexibility to fulfill their particular mission .
indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the devastating blows that have been absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq . a american invasion of iraq , with its large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat feel faced by arab youths , and make them inclined to unite al qaeda-style holy war cells . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war will most likely play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . political repression and arab public opinion silence should worry america and its arab allies , not appease them , because it implies that there can be no way for the public to channel their interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . despair and alienation have taken hold of more than 50 % of arabs who represent the region ’s population .
nord stream 2 , however , would make those suffering inevitable . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . by committing to buy more russian gas than was necessary , and for a longer time , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to europe ’s peace . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter yamal close . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences .
san francisco , it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , notwithstanding the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . and those who should act as watchdogs for the patients are happy to go along . in the us , pharmaceutical companies are paying players throughout the health-care sector in order to favor their more expensive drug companies over lower-priced alternatives . yet there does not really be any mystery at hand . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which an overwhelming majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , almost 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , with young people suffering at the highest level of unemployment among most countries . this constitutes not only invocation of resources , but also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem . but , while there are plenty of reasons to cast the blame for foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will resolve nothing .
almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , according to data from the world health organization . since unicef began emphasizing hiring women for its polio program back in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . let us not forget that the risks these women are taking to protect anyone from an illness that has assumed an enormous toll on global health . as the polio survivor , i simply ca n’t fathom the possibility that with full elimination in our sights , we might just allow polio to come back . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in such a fight , it is essential to resolve the barriers – be it physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they face .
in the us , roughly one-third of adults in the developed world have become impervious to new thinking , including a demonstrable fact . such people find themselves easy to manipulate , the notion that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” the american , has no efficient regulatory framework of online platforms , and lacks the political will to create one . a big female minority in the advanced global infilter bubbles has been created by such platforms as the digital false realities in which current beliefs become more rigid and extreme . indeed , western democracies are ill-prepared to deal with this threat , and the un is not in a position to go it alone .
when american troops were taken in iraq , president bush said that he expects them to be treated humanely . president bush 's remarks drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and of the question of how war crimes trials can be convened in postwar iraq and who exercise them . america 's un plan for war crimes trials covers the violations committed prior to the current conflict . " if not , " the us president warned , " people who mistreat inmates will still be treated like war criminals . " president bush 's remarks drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and of the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in postwar iraq and who exercise them .
second , today , ’s algorithms become very good at pattern recognition when they are given across large data sets , finding objects in youtube videos or detecting loan card fraud , but leaving them far less effective with unusual circumstances that wo n’t fit the usual pattern , or simply when data are scarce or a bit “ noisy . ” when interpretability is relevant – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human in a decision-making loop . in these “ black box ” boxes , ” ” ” ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is happening , or check whether there is a hidden bias . to manage such cases , you need a skillful person , with his or her experience , intuition , and social awareness . third , cutting-edge systems can not explain what they have made or recommending a particular course of action .
a second important area of progress has been the reform of russia ’s federation : the establishment of federal districts and the reform of the federation council . these changes are controversial in fact , but a federation whose laws do not observe some of its constituent nations can not function normally ; a federation in which the observance of laws depends on a whim of local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , today russia is a realistic – even if imperfect – federation . president putin ’s moves to cement an integrated system of power therefore were logical and sound . the country also advanced the path of fiscal federalism : channeling all the value-added tax to a federal budget and revenue tax to the regions makes for a sensible system of distributing budgetary resources among the tiers of authority .
within israel , many worry that trump is simply seeking to appease israel with bellicose rhetoric , views saudi arabia as the mainstay of us interests in the region . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between the israelis and the palestinians . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish minister of defense and yuval steinitz , a member of the national cabinet , moved swiftly to express concern about the arms deal . but , due to trump ’s failure to take the truly stand on any core fronts of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and the standing of jerusalem – the idea that he is playing some well-thought-out long game on the israel-palestine conflict looks farfetched . for israel , this concern is more than a little .
and the weaknesses in the london housing market do n’t seem to have spread elsewhere . indeed , towards the northwestern , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating rises . if this trend is to endure , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . one thing that could be absolutely certain is that the government should pursue policies to integrate the northern powerhouse with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps with the onshore giant uber , too . strengthening housing markets across the north could do wonders to undo the unsettling regional inequalities that have emerged in the last few decades .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational corporations ( mncs ) have ratcheted up the global economy ’s rules to minimize their corporate tax liability – or even eliminated it completely . and this shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of a unitary tax is gaining traction . and , for some time now , the us independent reform commission ( icrict ) has been arguing for us mncs ’ unitary taxation .
the third step must be an expanded r & d program into new , more effective approaches to controlling disease . this includes : funding to halt the transmission of aids , from mothers to infants ; money to help fight infections like tuberculosis to accompany aids ; and with a good design , even funding for anti-retroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and , together with drugs put to the world ’s poorest countries at the lowest possible production costs , it is possible to enlarge arv therapies into even very poor countries at an acceptable cost . the single most hopeful answer , for the long term , is a vaccine to protect against disease control . recent breakthroughs in basic science provide hope that a good vaccine can be developed within a decade if billions of dollars of research and development funds are mobilized by the public and private sector .
indeed , un member nations estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – throughout their lifetime . clearly , a global shift is needed within gender-related attitudes and norms . but deadly violence against women can be hard to detect . even those aware of it may opt to ignore it , believing that it is none of their business , or too widespread , to make a difference , or because they are too busy to get involved . to this end , there is a responsibility for national governments to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices , policies that effectively discourage the gender-based discrimination while deterring violence , including by punishing its perpetrators .
as a result , the fsln government proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of 153 municipal governments . this month , new mayors took office without an electoral college ( cse ) turned office to public 100 % of votes , open breaches of the nicaraguan electoral code . although managua ’s electoral fraud was most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . despite grievances from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the cse refused to allow a recount of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . and , when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence to curb them .
even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution , a possibility that was endlessly speculated about russia 's dwindling congressional band , the undemocratic nature of his strategy makes it glaringly obvious . what makes this work disfunctioning is that , like any very good kgb man , putin is a master at facades . moving from one high command to the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of russia 's parliament ) is merely a technicality . presidential democracy , it has been said , merely reinforces russia 's political culture ’s propensity to favor rulers with a “ powerful hand , " ” ” ” whereas a system of parliamentary democracy would allow for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power . at the same time , putin will be czar regardless of office formally is his own .
likewise , the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program is return with a vengeance in january , after us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election in march , to demand a response within the next few months . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? morsi ’s timing was notable : the day after the victory of international acclaim for his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both on the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they have largely wrote ) . that would be a bad mistake ; indeed , it .
the word “ liberalism ” does not mean the same thing for all people . and it was the alternative meanings that initially enabled politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties , for example – had to be strengthened . in much of its circles , it got used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice amid face-to-face lifestyles . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough .
despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . fundamentally , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift france not just from the french economy , but all of europe ’s boats . the likelihood , in fact , is that such reforms will sink all boats , giving populists their chance . in that case , diverse a populist will seize the opportunity ? the development economist dani rodrik is putting the appeal of populism in focus .
the first shock was intensified by globalization , which produced much new low-wage competition . germany 's precision tools and optical equipment , for example , had lost its competitive edge when japan entered the games . though globalization was a gradual process of action , it gained momentum when china chose to play the game . with japan 10 times the size of japan , japan was not so easy to handle , either . the second shock was eu integration , including northern and southern alike .
america ’s worsening fiscal position is leading to a strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cuts of two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy where jobs are lost in one industry , new jobs are created in another . government ’s role is to ease labor movements from one to the other . it is the government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . while countries may pride themselves on having a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for us exports and good for imports .
by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed un climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , in sovereign freedom of action , just as they did . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooled sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many big issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation , that hadevil our world . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the root of all their external ways . defending national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculus . but on the big issues of war , namely peace and nato ’s balance of power , europe seems stuck between an ill-cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries about how to define and guarantee their national interests .
the pro-milosevic likud candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received 46 % of the vote . one understands its trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , collaborated with the tribunal and paid a life of his own . despite his campaign promises , serbia 's president boris tadic has so far failed to work with the icty , by aiding in turning over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) who would surely testify against milosevic . such foot-dragging exposes the icty 's profound weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community has just convened it during , rather than after , war . without full scrutiny of either the evidence or the indicted , the icty has lacked access to “ victors ’ legitimacy and authority . "
for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recession have laid bare the implications of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets perform societal outcomes . furthermore , china – the incarnation of the go-for-growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better social and environmental outcomes along the lines of more subdued gdp gains . to be sure , this has largely been a case of point effects stemming from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach is also rooted in the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and farms . this shift is linked to one third , wider developmental : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , particularly with respect to climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on june 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has practically taken away my right even to write the word . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information on issues related to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual assault , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . as a resident in south africa , i have spent more than ten years providing abortion services to an ngo working on hiv prevention . but , just two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 , and more than two months before trump ’s administration inauguration , the ngo i worked to halt the distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it contains constitutionally guaranteed south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to purchase an abortion . as part of my work , i frequently edit education materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention .
recent us election campaigns will warm at a time when america faces a daunting set of issues . indeed , how can america react strongly to russian aggression , without forsaking a long-standing project of bringing it ever closer to the west ? is the alternative to sending us troops back to the middle east ? is there an alternative to sending us troops back to the middle east ? the recent us election campaigns will warm at a daunting set of problems in the region .
the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , removed half of its senior management , squeezed its financing , impoverished its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . in the wake of 9/11 , the us has host 700 square kilometers of territory . the us has deprived – and resulting revenues , amounting to 200 oil and gas facilities . the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism everywhere , everywhere , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iran , iraq , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to over 60 of its active members .
when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers rather than artillery had brought it down . academic and scholarly exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to note that visitors had vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scholars became influential proponents of human rights and the inner ussr liberalization . alas , bush failed to learn that lesson , on the contrary .
after all , if china is america ’s leading economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” its aging population watches resignedly as the next , younger asia , becomes as important for america as europe was during the cold war . its aging population watches resignedly as asia ’s next , younger , becomes as vital to america as europe was during the cold war . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as the world ’s anti-china , ” and to balance the world ’s “ oldest civilization ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ”
new york – the global recession that is now underway is the result not just of financial panic , but of more fundamental uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . consumers are pulling back from their homes and automobile purchases , not only because they laid-off their wealth with falling share prices and house values , but also because they do not know where to reverse it . will they be able to put food on the table after this year ’s terrifying rise in food prices ? should they run the risk of buying a new car , when gasoline prices might soar again ? decisions about business investment , for instance , are even starker .
the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal place for german-polish extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . whatever the trace of polish authority remained , no trace of trace amounts of polish authority . this is so why poland is right to insist that kurdish camps can not be called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . in occupied poland , they were germany ’s massacre in occupied poland . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal with , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated fashion , with local governments , if only on tactical grounds .
brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a trade model that others have imitated . indeed , in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , putting it on track second to japan ’s panasonic standing in 2009 . the leading suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firm find their way into china , where huawei now heads to one firm with sweden ’s ericsson , are located there . india ’s tata tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors . also , india ’s tata tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors .
meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and medicare , which can not be bloated . even america ’s government , with its debt duration close to four years , would be unlikely to benefit much in the inflationary surprise unless it is massive . even for distressed households , which have borrowed long-term bonds , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . what would help is if their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( hard ) debt service . yet , with high levels of joblessness likely to maintain nominal wage increases relatively subdued , typical troubled households might end up being worse off – with higher food and fuel price cutting in disposable income .
though china ’s leadership will , it hopes , lack the drama of 2009 , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly provide an impression of his own making . if he fails to miss an opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade treaty while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass a chance to ensure that the g-20 ’s agenda serves china ’s interests . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china on domestic economic concerns , particularly concerning infrastructure . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china on domestic economic concerns , particularly concerning infrastructure . but some of the potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent .
new york – after the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly , who supported the revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of a monarchy and a church congregated on the right . in the real world , emmanuel macron has both prides themselves on being neither right nor left . consequently , the political terms of the “ left ” and the “ right . ” many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that such categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france , – or , indeed , anywhere else . marine le pen , whose national front associates the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who served as minister in a socialist government , is a leftist .
we should toast the likely successes : some form of a financial-product safety commission is established ; more derivative trading moves to exchanges and clear houses from the shadows of murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices would be curtailed . but the criteria of judgment are clear : the new law must curb practices that jeopardized the entire global economy , by redirecting the financial system toward its proper tasks , manage risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small – and medium-size enterprises ) and operating an efficient payment system . moreover , it looks likely that outrageous fees charged by any debit transaction , a kind of tax that is going without any public purpose but filling the banks ’ coffers . as a result , it will probably go a long time before we are able to judge the success of any law by america ’s congress ultimately enacts . but the likely setbacks are equally noteworthy : the problem of too-big-to-fail banks is now even worse than it was before the crisis .
but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its young reason , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . to be sure , the uk is naturally closer to nato than france is . that makes germany and the eu ’s french critiques generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify themselves as europeans unlike with the uk ’s , who find themselves as british – or even , like english , irish , scottish , or welsh . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they associate with the united states and nato .
while the new tax law is commonly described as a fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a massive , immediate fiscal contraction . the republicans have proposed continued the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers . by agreeing to limit current tax rates for just two years , the tax package reduces the previously projected national debt in the us by the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have to do with obama ’s budget ) of some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . the long-term implications of the agreement stand in sharp contrast to both obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republicans in his counter-proposal . obama wanted to go on the 2010 tax rate permanently to all taxpayers except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 .
but regimes like scrapping old and fuel-inefficient automobiles simply led many people to reschedule their purchases . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of home sales then afterward in 2010 and again in the us . now , the crisis has revealed the extent of america ’s massive over-capacity in the us retail market , with estimates forcing at least one-fifth of america ’s shopping malls to shut down . the response to the crisis will be hastening the drift toward work-lines purchases , in which there is no longer a preeminent part of the shopping rulings . expenditure on automobiles ground to stop themselves until the government stimulus programs in a number of countries revived it .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the rise of christ . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification for government through a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . virtue ensured harmony between person and nature , as well as obedience within a stratified society . as one confucian classical has put it : possessing virtue gives a none of the ruler . possessing the " people " would give him territory , you say .
the most realistic scenario now is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah against syria . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , cutting off hezbollah in exchange for arms-control lines while enabling the vital challenge of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . alas , precisely because of its isolation and the ba’athist regime of paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to meet america 's condition for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and arresting terror . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the only way to break free of syria from a fateful iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional peace scheme .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan area , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by rural majorities . likewise , thailand ’s holdings of farms became increasingly alienated from the urban elite . while the rural population met more than enough to eat , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were constrained by a shoddy educational system and dogged state-run media that had fed them soap operas and formal messages . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , thriving the elite consensus that had long prevailed . for a nobody to become somebody , all roads led to bangkok and its prestigious startup schools and colleges .
by establishing an example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would make it easier to rise to the anti-alawite sunni regime . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who participate in a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders whom he was compelled to flee syria to support the revolution . the delegates , joined with several sunni opposition members , signaled assad and proclaimed their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that offers full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of an sect or ethnic background . “ depriving the sectarian card ” is critical to its ouster , the conference ’s organizing committee has noted . if the alawites and sunnis now living abroad may come together against assad ’s regime , in order to reach out strongly to their counterparts in syria .
in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , each has contributed $ 10 billion to start-up subscribed capital . though the equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter on it . on the contrary , china is the aiib , with a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % , respectively . moreover , brazil and south africa have made no capital donations to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ” china announced its aiib plans shortly after signing the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 .
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in us dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has drawn broad bipartisan support . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as america ’s policies toward mexico greatly increased the chances of anti-american chávez-type become president , officials are conveying positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of disastrous governance . well , in both cases , the us should have said no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country takes money from an impoverished neighbor with millions of its suffering people is hardly attractive . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially given that lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . rather than bashing latin america , america needs a steady and principled friend that can not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any type .
europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practices constitutional imperialism . a similar solution should be found for europe ’s constitution . indeed , the political imperative is just as great as formal . europe , after all , is committed to democracy worldwide . but , in the european way of thinking , democracy must be propagated pacifically , by persuasion , not by power by arms .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as special training physicians in forensic evaluations have pointed out , the us has traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , at the request of his us lawyer . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during a possible visit by saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the “ trump doctrine . ” at any rate , the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region , while only hinted at in trump ’s recent speech , have already been debated among both governments . trump appreciate what india has already done , but he is urging him to do even more , using his vast earnings from exports to america to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also hinted that the us is working with india to build an indo-pacific security zone . the implications of trump ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policies in afghanistan .
it has organized a postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , a marshall plan , the reconstruction of japan , and more . under that order , the rest of the world has closed much of america ’s vast technological , learning , and an infrastructural gap with america ’s . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , though still only around one-fourth the size of its per capita terms . on its own , the share of america ’s being represented in the world has declined by about half ( to around 16 % currently ) . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , although still only around one-fourth the size of per capita terms .
of course , achieving that objective , not to mention the next sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . indeed , as a report by the international panel on sustainable development financing points out , the spectrum of financing for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever before . a focus on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while the power – and tech-efficiency imperatives – could help to safeguard sustainability . given budget pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied upon to fill that need . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation are critical as well .
for example , if high oil prices were the result of tax revenues that were then reallocated to oil users , they would be unambiguously good . to be sure , most taxes imply a heavy “ excess burdens ” : costs are significantly larger than the value of the revenues raised because of potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a oil tax , however , does not entail any excess burdens . shifts to the more energy-efficient approach of transportation ease congestion . on the other hand , it implies excess benefits .
you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin a – as well as mineral-enriched foods and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with health claims . like many people , i think that a small , innovative company has dominated functional foods . so-called “ functional ” foods , or “ techno-foods ” – those to which manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , cholesterol reducers , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable them to extract “ qualified health-care claims permitted by the diet and the drug administration ( the fda ) . the sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing about around $ 85 billion in u.s. sales in 2004 . if you routinely purchase such foods , you are among the lohas ( lifestyles of health and unsustainability ) consumer – the health-care food industry ’s cherished demographic base .
in particular , the two countries that had drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically diverse . all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . the case for capital-market integration , and subsequently for a single currency , followed by similar policies elsewhere . unity is supposedly to be a foundation of prosperity . the common market was defended at the outset in terms of bargains that would have been followed by increased trade .
according to a recent study , impact investing in american companies would not exist without the backing of and partnerships with the federal government via grants , credit , and guarantees . several existing federal programs , like the community reinvestment act , and a small business investment firm program , stimulate the growth of impact investing funds . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and they need to be an essential feature of any government program . most recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . in a sib , government contracts with outside provider to achieve a credible welfare target ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors fund a program ’s upfront cost , and the government promises to pay back them if program targets are met .
china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly regarding western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance over china ’s offensive sacrifices , at $ 14 million dead – and of its major contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese troops also reflects a partisan history of waging war that has been taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative has been that the ccp led the opposition against japan . foreign assistance , including america ’s important leadership role in wartime china , did not have room in this narrative . their presence indicates that behind the parades of the parades of martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more complicated narrative of china ’s wartime experience emerges .
likewise , while case-shiller us home price index now peaks at 10.2 % over the year ending in march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . on real terms , the s & p 500 is still down 20 % below its january 2000 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it . yes , the us stock market is currently at an all-time high , but only at current us dollars . but are these newfound wealth effects actually being made ?
after all , it was their center-left voters who had macron elected . and they knew what they had voted for : each policy that he had implemented so far was included in his campaign-finance platform . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues , and europe , on secularism , educational , entrepreneurship , and , more – making it extremely difficult to identify what exactly represent “ left-wing ” policies nowadays . in fact , the socialists have begun to distinguish themselves not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting the lines , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( the reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet , this distinction might not be as powerful as the socialists might believe .
there is an even smaller risk in saudi arabia itself , with king abdullah recently promising more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . syria ’s syrian president bashar al-assad has more home-grown support than recent media accounts of street unrest in the country ’s south suggest . the few saudi demonstrations appear populated almost completely by a minority of shia , who find little compassion among majority sunnis and by foreign construction workers petitioning for higher salaries and improved working conditions . the 2009 brutal crackdown on post-election protests has proven the regime to maintain order by whatever means necessary . nor does iran ’s government seem to be facing a genuine danger .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are still burdened by the legacy of last century ’s two world wars . they are resilient , yet incomplete democracies , challenged by factors of poverty , violent violence , and endemic corruption , with all but forgotten the international community as a whole . now , however , there is some reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects might improve . like them , they have suffered through brutal , protracted civil war ; unlike them , however , successive governments have built institutions capable of supporting reasonably high levels of territorial control and domestic security . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not exactly in the same category as central america ’s other three .
in addition , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed some important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . in the region , ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios well above 75 % . as growth has slowed , government revenues have declined , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment has barely started , the old rent-distribution model has become unaffordable , and populists have turned against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to make a convincing reformist effort . no longer content with mere displacing an aging population , the protesters are also targeting key elements of the profound state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , blames this carefully calibrated system into disarray . it is reflected in its pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense in order to fulfill their nato obligations , a valid demand , but also the need to continue to channel that spending toward us-made nuclear-weapons systems . there are also ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato commitments , a valid demand , but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems . far from displaying a capacity to make a mockery of , as the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to bully his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world .
using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries where investors are missed risk – and opportunities . thus , even as public deficits and debts remain low before a crisis , they can still rise sharply after one erupts . data on new countries ’ macro investment risk taking requires looking systematically at stocks and national flows to capture all kinds of dangers , including risk-taking within the financial system and the real economy – as well as broader risk-related issues . as we have seen during the recent crises , private risk taking and debts is socialized when crises hit . governments that looked fiscally sound are suddenly portrayed as insolvent .
in recent years , i have been deeply involved in the policy aspects of this grand city for economic revival . i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester arena council , and then served as chair of the city ’s growth commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse ” program ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a program to link the brics ’ cities to a cohesive , entrepreneurial force . i never attended a concert at the manchester arena arena , but this appears to be a brilliant venue for the city . abedi ’s barbaric act , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children . subsequently , i joined david cameron ’s government , helping to implement the earliest stages of a northern powerhouse .
nile delta – some 60 miles , north of cairo ’s tahrir square , the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , in some secondary school students are named “ jails . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile delta villages has morbidly quips that it is taking doubles as a morass . “ we had never seen a revolution here , ” he said a few months earlier , withholding his name in the fear of losing one ’s job . “ a lot of hope that we had now been dead … . ” a deformed hope that now has been dead … .
first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp drops as each dollar of fiscal contraction , used for a gnp prediction that a one-dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit would link with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp – would be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the often-deep fiscal plan , approved by the board of the 2017-2026 , that makes no doubt form the foundation of debt-restructuring discussions , appears to ignore this circularity . alas , the governing council ’s already-deep projected fall in true gnp makes it highly optimistic , because it relies on a number of sinister and/or controversial assumptions . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” to economic activity and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , perpetuating a crisis that all parties are eager to head off . the five flaws in the governing council ’s fiscal plan stand out .
eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank rescues triple as a credit rating , but it makes its impact more effective . the first involves development assistance ; the second , strengthening of international institutions such as the imf and the world development agency . such control is detrimental to the evolution of open societies . i propose that the world ’s open societies form alliances with a dual purpose : fostering both the development of individual countries ’ open societies and the evolution of a global open society . such an alliance requires collaboration not just from governments , but also from civil society .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . accra , the planned establishment of parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced out of serve as a federal title x family-planning program that supports lower-income women . the ruling – a response to new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration , forbidding title x clinics from referring abortion patients , costs planned parenthood roughly $ 60 million annually .
still , post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given these failings , it is not surprising that employment policies at the net effects are often quite small relative to the scale of the problem . job policies , for example , did little to reduce the intense regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the war of the 1990 ’s . in both kosovo and bosnia and croatia , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at an average of 45 % six years after its war ended .
we will engrave in our hearts this past , when japan ended up losing a challenger to the international order . japan will make an even larger effort to combat poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , providing opportunity for medical services , education , and self-reliance for every people in the world . we will engrave in our hearts the past , when japan ended up losing a challenger to the international order . upon that reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as irresolute values , and by working hand in hand with countries that share such values , the hoist flag of the “ proactive contributions to peace , ” the ” and the contribution to world peace and prosperity more than ever before . the us will wield massive help to develop countries and lead the world toward greater prosperity .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the cutting edge of those welcoming democratic change and participating in it . though they constitute just 20 % of the saudi population , they comprise a majorities of -75 % – a largely 75 % population – of the oil-rich region . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered some discrimination in occupations : in army , high cabinet positions , the diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , in the oil-rich gulf states , where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia is informal by the wahhabi religious establishment , and supported by numerous fatwas denunciations of them as heresy . in bahrain , the shia , who make up 75 % of the population , have been keen on a recent reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah .
replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer volume of lives that it can help to save . by pooling their resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver services . in the process , child death from aids has fallen by 50 % since their peak , with the deaths of malaria down by around 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to continue that work .
alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have washed its hands of politics . right-centrist parties – the party of right forces and yabloko – do have such a vision , and people know it . higher education , it seems , has less voter participation : among those who never vote , the percentage of those with a college education is about twice what people lack a higher level of education . this is a sort of political depression , and one can not help but be more so . depression can be cured , but only by giving a positive vision to the patient .
augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , especially at this point , change a fundamental perception of such interference , both in and outside the arab world . this is true for actions contemplated by individual peoples , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato . but broad international support will not be forthcoming unless military operations are perceived as certain by some form of western neo-imperialism . that latest point has been at its heart . only an explicit , multilering of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except through clear self-defense – requires .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and were first given birth , when younger had more children . genes , however , are just one of the many factors affecting height and age at first birth . personal decisions , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all enter the mix . when we estimated how wide variation among individuals could be attributable to biology , the answer was fewer than 5 % . that left 95 % of the variation to explain the effects of cultures and individual choices .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crises are fracturing public faith in a continent ’s own political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to strengthen as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of post-world war ii european integration as well , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat , as well . in contrast to europe ’s brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in marked contrast to europe ’s brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr , is , if anything , too well loved . more than 60,000 people have actually sought the eu ’s assistance in recent years , far more than can expect any reasoned decisions .
as security expert sarah chayes argues in opposition to corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice . indeed , leaders must inevitably contend with difficult tradeoffs . one deploys soldiers to combat terrorism ; another provides critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . in a world of competing demands , it is possible for corrupt governments to serve vitally important purposes . to identify the best solutions in every concrete case , governments must reframe the problem more effectively , which implies improving intelligence collection and data collection .
willingly or not , some may seek recourse for inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic saving into state-financed financing and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) – or , ultimately , outright debt restructuring . ultimately , they are a variety of methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . as a result , all three unorthodox remedies have been used during past debt crises . they can be considered alternative forms of taxation , however implicit , rather than explicit . they are preferable to adjust fully ?
after the shock of the terrorist attacks of september 2001 , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . when pressed on his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ it ’s nothing to me . ” sometimes leaders think that vision can address most of their problems , but misvisions – or an over-ambitious vision – can do the most damage . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ the vision thing . ” yet one has to be wary about visions .
and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energies as a potentially lucrative business . trump ’s stated political priorities will inevitably clash with those of us states like california , which has embraced the initiative to encourage climate-minded technological innovation . moreover , according to a recent report by america ’s recent department of energy , the number of such jobs in the us wind and solar industries increased by only 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . in the us , wind power costs have plummeted by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar costs have shrunk by more than 85 % . and , happily for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from his own climate commitments .
already , spillover effects from trade and finance transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a marked slowdown , with india ’s potential growth rate expected to drop to roughly 6 % this year . in addition , if conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could become more severely affected . china ’s potentially powerful domestic-demand base , and the ample room for policy maneuvers , may help it avoid a hard landing . it has already aggressively loose monetary policy and able to employ further fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector and local governments could undermine growth-enhancing efforts .
employing the historical data compiled by the economist angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experienced the deceleration of us economic growth , after their per capita gdp has reached about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the steady base-1990 american dollar price of $ 17,000 in perpetuity , or $ 17,000 in persistently sound 2005 , american dollar prices . in south korea , for example , growth dropped to an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in hong kong , that slowdown dropped to 5.8 % . in hong kong , for example , it slowed to its current level . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth over the next five years will drop well below 7 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s fine line of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a fresh start , ” “ is that it included public admission to united states of past missteps in the region .
preventing small countries – like switzerland or any big ones – from competing for given specific vacant seats reduces the executive boards with potential competency . providing large countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easier for their policymakers to exercise control over the ecb through the appointments process . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to boards in an open-door system than it is under the current one . the last thing the ecb needs is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder assuming that mr. issing ’s key post . the last thing the ecb needs is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder assuming that mr. issing the key post .
but labor costs have risen much faster throughout the global south , resulting in differential cost increases that can not be addressed by devaluation until the currency union endures . indeed , excessive wage deflation is likely to have a negative impact on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more quickly and extreme austerity , pushing down prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not wholly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . as long as this domestic divergence has persists , the euro crisis can not be fully overcome , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks ’ debts . against this background , slowing productivity growth whether through technical progress , improved resource allocation , or productive investment – is as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint is .
of course , this does not mean that no identities are claims of themselves . indeed , key elements of a modern british identity all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . an institution called the english heritage curses on the past , from prehistorical monuments of trendy to to the ancient rural homes celebrated in television costume dramas . likewise , established or state church is of england , created nearly 500 years ago , when royal henry viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . former prime minister john major referred to the uk as the country of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm sofia , invincible green suburbs , dog mistresses and swimming fillers , and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids ’ bicycling to the holy communion via the morning fog ’ … ”
in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” ” ” ” ” that abe committed – allowing japan ’s self-defense forces to aid its allies under attack and assisting america and other allies in meeting its commitments to securing asia ’s peace – has long been puny . that stance makes the alliance far more partnerships of equals than it has over the past six decades . that bold policy initiative , in the face of the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism about potential increased exposure to military risks , no doubt endeared the us diplomats and us military strategists , in addition to securing both open and sometimes tacit acquiescence in japan ’s struggle for asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly vital today , given america ’s worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ perceived readiness . both abe and obama focused on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia ; abe has been keen on japan to play a more active role in that regard , and on fostering his allies .
the matter of occupying a presidency during this transition is surely not inconsequential . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history , and , as the long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes have made clear , iranians know it . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s actual health concerns are public knowledge . with khamenei having served as president before ascending to iran ’s supreme political and religiously-oriented position , it is easy to see that hately conservative candidate raisi , he was elected , could become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the odds that his successor should be named in the near future were not low .
moreover , north korea ’s ’s nuclear-weapons development , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as sovereign , are fueling deep anxieties among its neighbor . and yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum toward greater regional cooperation is building in overcoming them . sadly , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have made no significant headway on the most sensitive security issues dividing them . the chinese government ’s recent trilateral summit , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to be hosted , in addition to meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . but this lack of quick success does not mean that these efforts are futile .
and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit enormously from cheap chinese imports – the walmart effect , which allows them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial dossiers have served both countries well in compensating for their outsized saving imbalances while appeasing their respective growth agendas . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue to see . after all , china has committed an equally conscious strategic decision to change its growth strategy . a seismic shift goes hand-wringing , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well be a tipping point .
reaching for yields has also narrowed credit spreads between higher-grade bonds and riskier common and emerging-market bonds . with the current inflation rate exceeding 2 % and markets predicting a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by a five-year five-year-forward rate of interest-rate hikes ) , yields on ten-year treasury bonds are expected to exceed 4 % . a surge in an annualized yield to 4 % would cut the value of such bonds substantially . ten-year treasury bonds currently yield an average of just 2.5 % . other long-term bonds , which include both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer a similar level .
because raising capital is hard and expensive , they deleverage by borrowing less . without that confidence , credit wo n’t flow , and economic activity will increasingly crowd out demand . but the american macroeconomic weakness now goes far beyond the diminished provision of credit . furthermore , because financial institutions ’ asset purchases have been bought mainly with borrowed money , the scarcity of credit is exacerbated by their need to deleverage . thus , for the most part , for jobs that increase , incomes exceed payroll and pay incomes .
enabling america to sell its own risky financial products and engage in speculation around the world may have served its companies well , even if they impose large costs on others . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and misused to serve some of the same interests . have heart change been reversed or merely changing the strategy ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms – the minimal required to justify the $ mega-trillion in bailouts ? in fact , have those who pressed for deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ?
and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , recovery is extending into other industries . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . in the short run , the credibility that ireland has gained through resolute fiscal policies and reform has helped to rebuild confidence , facilitating a return to growth , and hence fiscal consolidation . a variety of factors have been fueled by this growth . wage restraint and lost productivity competitiveness , thereby further weakening exports .
because such a scheme would impose losses on bondholders , substantial official muscle , and peer pressure is needed . but acquire time for a more orderly resolution , de-escalation , and minimizing the magnitude of an eventual write-down makes a larger part of a superior outcome . thus , under this model , and despite initial pressure , the bondholders ’ behavior could be treated as if it were a truly voluntary one . the third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtaining binding pre-commitments , and eliminating free riders . and , while rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as insolvency , the talmudic sages reveal us why a more thoughtful classification is called for .
as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of capabilities or product , and exchange them up to millions of other things in which we have little clue as to do or to make . as a result , our market economies encourages specialization : we become very good within a narrow set of capabilities or their products , and exchange them up to millions of others on our behalf . this observation is as true about an individual as it is about a place , whether the eu is a city , a city , a state or a province , or a country . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money merely tracks the value of the gifts that we give to one another . as a result , we end up making up doing spectacularly few goods and buying back everything else .
yet another consortium has engaged in building multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west . moreover , georgia ’s reward for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was not dollars , but in the politics of diplomatic insurance – i.e. , westerners , in particular the us , worry about the safety of the gas pipelines . people elsewhere survive on a few dollars a day , and the us is increasingly investing billions of dollars in aid and aid reserves around the world . another consortium has started to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west .
in the same three year , prices in wall street and european companies skyrocketed by 60 % or more . this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches , or to read at major business newspapers . politicians warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” even in hong kong , where share prices have recently hit new highs , they are now only 10 percentage points above their peak in early 1994 . japanese stocks are valued at almost half their 1990 ’s value .
strong central institutions , accountable to a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . national banking systems should be unified , to insulate private losses from sovereign-debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities , along with a deposit-insurance scheme , forming the heart of the european banking union . moreover , austerity should be relaxed , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in petty and medium-size firms in over-indebted periphery . moreover , in the shorter term , the single market should be expanded to services , and the schengen free-trade arrangements were established either multilaterally or bilaterally with core trading partners like the un . germany ’s reluctance to take lead on these issues partly reflects the historical inhibitions that are always difficult to overcome .
china , for its part , has much to show for this in its recent history . just consider the massive access to education of its vast rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” india , so china ’s pride nowadays is legitimate . china , just celebrating with martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s establishment of the “ people ’s republic ” constitutes one of the most interesting cases of a nation evincing the “ brief sightedness ” against its past . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn by wars both internal and external , is aiming to become the world ’s second-largest economy , after world war ii . china ’s insolent prosperity , while far from being dissipated in the same way , with china ’s relative political stability , however the regime ’s opening remains tightly constrained , is undeniable and deserving of respect .
by allowing exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards generated in a currency union : undervaluation , which produces inflationary pressure and overvaluation , which demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving real wages ) . perhaps more important , it would lack a lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in a crisis . all things considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates according to domestic economic conditions . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably require from a young sovereigns like scotland could be minimized by issuing debt in sterling , thereby protecting investors from additional exchange-rate risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the proceeds derived from central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasury ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to over 50 % of gdp , with the private sector generating almost 60 % of russian output . meanwhile , corruption blights reform across the ex-communist world . though the transition was bound to be painful , the russian epidemic of corruption inflicted more political damage on itself than on the economic side effects of reform . government tolerance against bribery and racketeering enabled opponents to say that “ the mob ” was grabbing the gains from economic change . government , and hence economic reform , will pay for this neglect at the polls .
it is possible that his image as the right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who favors serbia to reestablish its pre-wwii montenegro and the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life . though he does not sacrifice major moral precepts about power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer with whom he once was . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects tend to be the wrong counselor in listening the scarce good . he is neither corrupt nor warcriminal , neither aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor likely to flex the law in the name of personal power . for his part , many people voted for him by default , both now and when he was ousted by miloševic in 2000 .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure they see on television . they will flock to the darkest side of the political night , and to end in france ’s dustbin of history , where they can rub elbows with those other yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” ” ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and experts la d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their hands and hang on their daily word . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to prevail over the genuine brotherhood and elect wrecking over reforming , they will bring only chaos , not an improvement on the life of the humble , vulnerable . the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to mend , or urge to destroy .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failures in iran ? according to vice president iranian-turkish business council vice president al gore , “ it ’s extremely complicated to do business in iran . ” still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which is to fear that iran and turkey could become too powerful . a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate on stark terms : “ it is like iranians who prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” still others suggest that iran ’s mercurial banking system is the culprit .
moreover , we need to invest in research and development on low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that prepare low-resource settings . in addition , we also need to invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and natural-resource tools that are suited for underserved environments . smart , collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers out of nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to create efficient , accessible , and convenient solutions are desperately needed . essential medicines and better tools for managing heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also dramatically less available and proportionally more expensive for poor people in low – and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this disparity prompted the medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ problem of our time . ”
south orange , new jersey , if an international organization has made recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , and the country has accepted fewer than half of them , the organization might seem like a failure . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including list of previous recommendations and how to execute status . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores the purposes : spur – and facilitate – reform by informing officials about its costs and rewards . in its 2010 united nations survey , the oecd produced 29 advice , from rebuilding a national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implement a cap-and-trade scheme . but an international organization should be judged according to the quality of the information and the advice it provides , not whether governments actually listen .
whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether this is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he once described has the “ worst deal ever ” . he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s own alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close ties with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feel ignored or undermined . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection might prove to be the toughest challenge yet . most important , he will have to get the north korean regime to acknowledge , at least in the short term , that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and consent to a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . moreover , he will need to hold all the alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable in the context of inter-korean dialogue .
germany ’s short-lived electoral coalition negotiations now underway , and , with the sdp determined not to join the ruling party , the likeliest result is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s chief flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens . germany ’s upcoming government , one hopes , will encompass pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push ahead with european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . the exit of the cdu/csu “ grand grand grand coalition ” could mean an end to political stagnation not just in germany , but at the european level , too . in that case , a new crop of leaders might be a driving force shaping germany ’s role for years to come . another avenue of viewing germany ’s electoral outcome , then , is as an opportunity for another front .
the timing could n’t have been worse , at least for now . last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable escape from dictatorship . the elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government , which signaled an excuse for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . it would have lasted six long years under a rapacious military rule before nigeria received a further chance at democracy . following the country ’s brutal , hyper-corrupt army ruler , sani abacha , who had abruptly dropped dead , the army sullenly agreed to another national election .
instead of sidestepping the issue on sexual and reproductive health – and on gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . such barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , freelance , indigenous women , rural women , rural women , and adolescents . and they need to design uhc programs accordingly . reducing maternal mortality , for example , promises no antenatal attention , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need more access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , specifies that modernizing the armed forces is intrinsically linked to domestic development . it thus emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stakes in a secure environment , characterized by rising competition for access or control , natural resources . in order to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy needs to nurture a robust defense policy . likewise , little progress toward nuclear-arms reduction has been made in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , as well as the style and substance of its foreign policies . but a real promise for both china and india lies in its future . big expatriate communities in the us – behind 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have raised interests in their native nations among other americans . yao ming , a chinese star in the us national basketball association ’s houston rockets , might become yet another michael jordan , with china set to host the 2008 summer olympics . moreover , transnational connections in us information industries come close as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services .
the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s capacity to make an association agreement work , has instead merely tted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members have an interest in securing russia ’s gas supplies during the winter , causing them to forget their allies ’ own security interests , – a classic divide-and-rule strategy , had served chile well . ukraine may not afford to take in this regard . the european commission ’s recent agreement in september to postpone full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union produced there , an agreement that ukrainians were fighting and dying for in kyiv last winter signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation may win west acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and the theft of crimea . ukraine may now merely get away through its eyes .
that convention should start by exploring brexit ’s implications for regions . for example , we should question whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if some powers and funding instead should be decentralized to regions and peoples . where possible , regional money and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of farming , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to adequate regional bodies like the scotland parliament , the welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local administrations – should be delegated to decent regional bodies like the scotland parliament , the welsh , and northern irish assemblies , town mayors , and local authorities . such a radical change is possible – and to match the scale of the crisis , it must be radical – – will require a nationwide debate that could be conducted via the peoples of the constitutional convention . to this end , re-frame the constitution to incorporate regional concerns and recognize that the uk is a supranational state .
the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . the eu can not possibly take the place of an american as the world ’s leader . as a result , an american is no longer in a position to set the world ’s agenda . but it can set an example , both inside and outside its own borders . though a majority of its citizens can not realize this , the eu serves as an inspiring example .
to be sure , putin views the olympics as and , specifically , medals . that is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion tag was well worth it , considering that russia won the greatest medals now . ( it was russia ’s action during the sochi olympics that form the centerpiece of the doping scandal . ) this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory . like his ancient soviet masters , he conflates a athletic fame with military glories .
but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world 's largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly an historic friend and ally . perhaps true pragmatism on display in the case of north korea represents a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and introspective internal fixation . in fact , china 's rise is one of the most widely studied developments of our time . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to participate in international sanctions is often attributed to their faith in judging actions by whether or not they work . it is , after all , a country that can be described to itself as a world of civilization , and its trajectory has been far more impressive than that of any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing an array of conflicting explanations . some attribute the windfall mainly to declining global growth expectations . others focus on expanding america ’s national oil and gas production . still others suspect a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states targeting , among other things , by weakening political rivals like russia and iran . regardless of the reason for the downward price drop , most likely in some combination of these factors , the consequences are the same .
with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should remain high or even rise further , for the foreseeable future . currently , the global oil situation is especially intriguing . the previously fashionable view that an american seizure of iraq ’s oil resources would break up opec and send the plummeting price of oil has turned out to be nonsense again . even with improved security there would take five years to bring iraqi oil fully on stream . at around $ 30 a barrel , us oil prices remain high , even as a soft global economy means that us demand is low .
as with its predecessor , the ecb ’s securities markets program , the omt program is legislated and democratically doubtful : it violates entities , but not the letter ; of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private lenders still leaves no precedent ; and involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to the political backlash – witness ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . the omt program causes credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that occurred in the last three years . reversal of this process will most likely not occur until the twin key components of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – come within tangible reach . after all , when markets truly believed that the ecb would refuse to backstop hostile governments , investors would run away from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is not being met . but omts also appropriate with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crises , policymakers need to focus on extinguishing the fire rather than negotiate over who owns the water and what its cost should be .
two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised the field of constructive reform ideas . premium support can significantly reduce medicare spending , because it establishes a framework for more efficient higher-cost spending , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage . to allow individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and their copayments , health saving accounts – funds that are not subject to revenue tax at the time – and can be used tax-free in any time to cover qualified medical expenses , – should be expanded and strengthened . so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who designed modernizing social-security reforms and medicare to avoid imposing a high cost burden on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . for starters , bipartisan premium proposals , with painful premium proposals , should be implemented .
silvio berlusconi , who is about to become president of the european union on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk themselves and whose business bets have paid off large ones . so his fortune , therefore , began in real-estate development , with the aim of going to germany itself . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that an italian state ’s tv monopoly will not survive and jump-started what is becoming italy ’s main privately owned arab media group . in the 1960 ’s , he was the first to see that milan , then the traditional italian town , where people went to work would become a modern metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs . but you never win in high tv and real-estate business without the right political links .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for government spending – have long been a hallmark of chinese economic policy . but , with firms ’ financing costs trending up , this is finally starting to change . early this year , the united states state council , china , ’s cabinet , made curtailing funding costs for firms , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , brazil ’s banco de sac ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which comprises freeing up more funds for lending by banks that allocate a specified proportion of their overall loan portfolio to small and medium-size enterprises . the pboc , through its “ pledged supplemental lending program , ” has also begun lending directly to banks that pledge to use medicaid to finance social-housing construction .
the countries with the greatest cause for concern over russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not to be offered nato membership . russia 's democrats , with an enormous stake in a peaceful future , are adamant that extending alliances membership to central europe insulates their countries from europe , strengthening russia 's political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying point for re-building russia 's military power . moreover , today russia is far too weak to endanger them , as the russian military 's disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . someday , russia will become stronger ; if an expanding " nato nato to central europe " now would discourage a revival of the eu 's imperial foreign policy then , this might be a powerful argument in favor of doing just that . but nato expansion does not probably make russian foreign policy more palatable to ever .
that world will still be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . but that would presume a small gesture toward the palestinians , whom israelis regard as so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement appears possible . israel ’s leaders appear to be intent on gaining time both coecility by resisting the soft pressures of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing nato to become a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly influential role . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted at the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel can remain dependent only on its comparative merits in the eyes of a cynical , realistic actors who will judge it solely by their own national interest . israel may be european , ” and its chief ally may well remain the un for many years to come ; but israeli leaders need to start thinking about how their country can thrive in a post-western world .
he ca n’t find enough spending cuts ( magic asterisk has disappeared up the conjurer sleeve ) ; gdp acceleration is nowhere to be seen ( an rosy scenario having vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit under laffer ) . the audience is now told that losing fiscal revenue and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along . performer explains that the deficit is all the fault of the us congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit , because “ congress can not spend money that wo n’t have ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while the congress can not spend money that does n’t have . the final trick “ starve the beast , ” ” typically comes up later , if and when the president enacted his tax cuts and repackage that smoke and mirrors does n’t trump ’s job realities .
in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict issued stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism . for this reason , in june one of us launched the idea that , beginning in march 21 , we are depicting the flag on our homes , our plants and jobs in our way . march 21 also marks the anniversary of the death of benedict , europe ’s patron saint . but there is also the urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our national unity and our future projects : and that symbol is europe ’s flag . for this reason , in june one of us launched the idea , beginning on march 21 , that we depict our flag on our homes , our plants and offices .
that fits into a wider trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslims backgrounds are immediately categorized as “ acts of terror ” , and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic way , with violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies being treated like “ isolated incidents . ” the attack in christchurch was a direct response to the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the world ’s rare survivors . but , so far , there is nothing isolated in such incidents . according to the world economic forum ’s just-released terrorism index 2018 , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to actual groups , or from individuals , has risen steadily in the past year . in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than islamists .
the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project amounts to a fading memory , because , so far , germany generate a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s prospects and eu popularity . the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included europe ’s single currency , the euro . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by which it has now relocated from bonn to berlin , has contented itself once again with a lower european profile . that modest , unassuming role belongs firmly in the past , even though german power still has to be matched by imagination . indisputably the strongest – and most dependable – of the 28 member countries lacks a vision of where a beleaguered europe should go .
while the rest of the world struggles to raise savings , china , with its savings rate in excess of 40 % , struggles to get its people to consume more . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from export-oriented and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate consumption . china has been engaged in what might be called vendor finance , ” providing the money to help finance america ’s enormous fiscal and trade deficits , allow americans to buy more of their goods than they sell them . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s wars on iraq , just as it has a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while vast needs at home imply a ample room to expand both domestic consumption and investment . providing better social services ( public-sector health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
selling the five-rupee sachets shampoo to poor consumers is regarded as clever marketing , but lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . a high pay earned by a cosmetics or softlic-drink manufacturer attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the plight of the poor , if not immoral . after all , both activities are financed by investors seeking returns on their capital , and motivated more by gain than compassion . still , pmfis have succeeded in meeting the genuine need . but one is clearly less socially acceptable than the other .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are displacing a new wave of automation , with machines matching or out-performing humans in a fast-growing pool of tasks , including some that demanding complex cognitive abilities and advanced degrees . this process has exposed experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse effects on both the quantity and quality of jobs have raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for the loss of manufacturing jobs in the united states . at the same time , however , the consensus view is that some 80 % of america ’s manufacturing employment losses over the past three decades were labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming a distant second . indeed , trump ’s us treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , declared that the potential technology displacement of us laborers is not even on [ the us administration ’s ] radar screen .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could do no wrong in economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan on competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a broad range of high-tech precision and mass-production industries , production of tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction started after world war ii , greatly outlived the supposed growth of europe ’s economies . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would make progress . and they saw economics grow significantly faster than that of north atlantic economies had , when bequeathed by the same absolute and relative economy-wide level of productivity .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that a today ’s palestinian-israeli war is de facto two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent jewish state worthy of the name . israel , too , is fighting two wars simultaneously : a mere war to defend its right to exist ; accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of both the west bank and the gaza strip and the jewish settlements situated there . despite the intifada , the mass of settlers has diminished in only a handful of 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers live in the gaza strip alone ; in 16 communities occupying 20 % of the world ’s impoverished lands already suffering one of the highest population denmark . around 220,000 israeli settlers live in the west bank and gaza , excluding some 190,000 people living in the neighborhoods of jerusalem that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders , divided jerusalem . israeli statehood of the expanding settlements is substantial .
meanwhile , within the eurozone , financial fragmentation continues ; spain and , to the lesser extent italy , suffers from a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more visible . in contrast to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive in the past year . like the aging wizards , continuing tricks that used to impress , but that fail to deliver results , or , worse , prove counterproductive . the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates up to even higher . yet they have lost the touch of their peers ; in the meantime , they have lost their touch .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . but there are the levers in place that can help , at least for now . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration contemplated how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been inconceivable to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to keep one in good relations with it ; more important , such a policy aimed at ensuring future enmity with china would have been impossible . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be labeled as “ deepening and amenable . ”
the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” of ” ” ” has always been misleading . farage , for one , did not bring about brexit all on its own . the farage , for example , did no doubt succeed at persuading some americans to see themselves as part of what some white identity movements like white identity movements . but that identities – and how its adherents frame their interests – might change again . interests and identities form dynamically as politicians make offers of honest representation and citizen reactions .
they will facilitate interactions throughout their network , in order to spur the development of innovation ecosystems . such will include not just prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies backed personalized medicine , as they have called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” while the magnitude of many r & d organizations is bound to decline through such reforms , complexities of how to manage and maximizing the impact of this external-web of relationships will demand new skills and capabilities over and beyond those of excellent science . developing and rerewarding the staff who possess such skills will present an additional but welcome , challenge . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond the traditional product and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering the full spectrum of good health-care solutions .
the social world is separate from the physical world because it is man-made and hence almost infinitely malleable . so , in contrast to the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically , not by replacing the old patterns of the fine , but by expanding its patterns ’ bookkeeping library , with every shedding light concerning another social contingency . the point is not “ “ “ to reach a consensus ” about which a model is right , ” ” ” ” as romer puts it , but instead figure out that model applies best in a particular setting . and doing this will always remain the craft rather than the science , particularly when the choice has to be made real time . economics is not the type of science in which there could ever be one true pattern that works best across all contexts .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . in fact , today , the agriculture sector accounts for just one third of overall employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible workforce , centered on the easing of outdated and complicated laws of employment . the law of law protecting workers in india ’s formal sector exceeds that of most developed countries , just as china does , with mandated requirements raised as the workforce increases . equally important , indian workers – particularly young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
the new policy explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors such as logistics , power utilities , and information systems , thereby fostering interaction among business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese financing , credits , and insurance companies to investors . taken together , this holistic approach amounts to something new to china . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region appear keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with domestic changes . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted a program of “ investment partnerships ” ” ” ” ” ” to coordinate investment in the finance and transportation infrastructure sectors .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing . eventually , of course , the composition of gdp will give the acid test of whether china succeeded . but the key word here , then , is not there at all . it is far too early to expect substantial shifts in major sources of aggregate demand . for the moment , it is far more important to examine trends in the potential determinants of chinese consumption .
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump substantial power to shape us trade policies , so one can not ignore the possibility that he pursues protectionist measures in order to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based american support for a return to closed borders . european multinationals also have large stakes in the chinese economy , with the eu exporting to china and other emerging markets now nearly double that of the us . many europeans see trade as an opportunity rather than a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for increased protectionism . europe , meanwhile , has been drifting in the opposite direction .
at the time that he took up the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s tune with $ 19 million . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what was going on at the trump campaign . after taking the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based employee , “ how can we use [ that ] we use [ this ] to get whole ? ” like the other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal delicately with the people whom him was displease .
kyiv – from snowy kyiv , i followed the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to pride themselves on their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , as someone who ran a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride emphasizes pragmatism , because regime change is only the first step in establishing islamic-backed democracy . indeed , like my own country , ukraine , after the revolutionary euphoria fades and normalcy returns , democratic revolutions may be betrayed and reversed . the first of ukraine ’s lesson for both the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make it a democracy .
that is the argument behind the world ’s biggest biometrics project , the multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and faced ) affecting more than one billion indians . above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identities themselves . nandan nandan nilekani , the chairman of the infosys , which left his job to establish a system – known as aadhaar , credits it to save the indian government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicate and fake identities in governmental beneficiary lists . the protection against theft is obvious : what use is a cell-phone , a car , or a ticket that will work only for its legitimate owner ? increasingly , we use our fingerprints , or our face to unseat our smartphones , to repurchase our purchases , and to commission on airplanes .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a moment of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped to calm us nerves around the world . many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain genuine . anxieties levels may have come down , at boards and stock markets , but the everyday drama for survival continues to truly take hold for many people it has deepened , at the villages and streets of the world ’s least-developed countries , particularly those of africa . the un and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of the looming economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world over the long term .
roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , speaking out against forces that might rise to the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people , who have poured into the streets of every large city in the country with the knowledge that , in terms of overall votes , it is they , not trump , who won an election . were we to witness the appearance of someone who has an intimate knowledge of these genders to emerge ? or was she just the hottest girl at her party , the one avid adolescent challenged france and then held on tightly ?
obama officials reassured me that simpson had , in fact , a change of heart ; that he was a smart person with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he could sway reporters and get them to describe the boards of directors as “ bipartisan ” ( though he could n’t sway actual legislators ) ; and that he would portray the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( although he could n’t sway over actual legislators ) ; and that he would have been an individual asset to carry out substantive work through the commission process of substantive work . and it ’s not as though us congressional republicans think that they owe enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either the chamber of the us legislature . perhaps simpson had truly had a change of heart . perhaps he traveled by his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he had been doing and with whom he was , repented , seeking to repair some of america ’s damaging and its long-run economic growth prospects brought about . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important high positions of trust , and acclaim them as bipartisan statesmen , does make lousy incentives .
what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average figure of live births per woman over her own lifetime . over the long term , populations are said to be stable if the tfr is at its replacement rate , which resembles a little over 2.3 per world as a whole and somewhat lower , at the rate of 2.1 , per advanced country , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . on average , the oecd average stands at around 1.74 , but some eu countries , including germany and japan , produce fewer than 1.4 children per woman . nevertheless , the largest number of tfr declines in developing countries in recent years . the tfr for most advanced countries now stands well below replacement levels .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation makes it inevitable for business , there are actually three important channels through which regulation can yield economic benefits . one is the market-creating and market-growing roles illustrated by the gsm of the standard . the globalized reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in the class manufacture of handsets and nethardware , so prices fell precipitously , and interoperability between networks and across countries was much easier to achieve . as of 2004 , about one billion subscribers were able to gsm 's service worldwide . many of these regulations play this standard-setting role .
laguna beach – when i contemplate the prospects of the global economy and markets , i am running aback by the degree to which the world has collectively placed a giant bet on three critical outcomes : a shift toward an materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; avoidance of policy mistakes ; and avoidance of market accidents . while all three outcomes are undeniably desirable , an unhappy reality is that they are far removed from certain – and bets on them , without some hedging , could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of a bet for stronger global growth , anticipates continued economic recoveries in the united states , with a below-trend of 3 % this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also presumes that china ’s annual growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , enabling the risk posed by pockets of excess leverage in the shadow-banking system to be phased out gradually , even as the us economy ’s underlying growth engines continue to shift away from exports and toward public capital spending toward domestic consumption and toward private investment . another , more precarious assumption underpinning the fed ’s bet on more inclusive growth is that the eurozone and japan can escape the mire of low growth and avoid deflation , which , by impelling households and companies to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already tenuous economic performance
at the end of the day , republicans acceded to the democrats that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starbucks , the independent attorney whose investigations of the clinton real-estate dealings years earlier led him to lewinsky . the two parties allowed the independent attorney statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a mighty form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . as a result , most americans were confident that impeachment was a mistake ; if anything , they would cause the military to lose . many worried that a clinton impeachment would damage the us presidency , but its main effect on us presidential power had the opposite to do so . around the world , clinton ’s popularity soared after the impeachment trial succeeded .
most recently , in may 2015 , big numbers of traditional labour mps deserted their party for votes on the uk ’s independence party ( ukip ) , which stood at the forefront of the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders struggled to salvage its own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failing policies . but that merely placed ideas on alternate policies out of reach , while causing disaffected voters to direct their hostility toward the eu itself . though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part they have not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s referendum , the two major center-right parties backed the eu ’s “ remain ” campaign , though they have been split internally .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . weakening the developing-economy ’s incomes further is the slowing global demand slowdown , and the commodities price crash that , as the nobel laureate angus deaton has documented , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . to cap it all off , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability . to cap it all off , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability . the challenges are compounded in developing countries by new rounds of financial regulation in advanced countries , which are hampering flows of investment and funding to the developing world .
though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear violation , and the government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about its future . while north korea ’s nuclear-weapons arsenal makes a lot smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s ’s ’s ’s sustainability make it an issue of grave concern . for its part , iran appears relatively stable , at least compared to its neighbor . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihadi rebellion that formerly attacked military bases suspected of accommodative nuclear assets . in case of a regime ’s collapse – a distinct possibility – it would make it difficult to avoid the diversion of its assets or even use their weapons .
those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , using access to the us dollar clearing system as a foreign-policy tool – would open opposition to coordinated action . for the uk in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree with america ’s foreign policy in ways that some devotees of our “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . as for climate change , the us election that purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is clearly bad news . but this has not been a us-iran bargain ; it was negotiated by six leading us powers and endorsed by the un . but global momentum for tackling climate change can and must be sustained .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners , with little interest in de-escalation of regional conflicts . this would make a reform-oriented resurgence in iran exceedingly difficult . of course , the most likely scenario is a combination of both sets of dynamics . ironically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new , governed by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits the region in a better way than the current one . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments pretend more closely to a reform-oriented path , all that a diplomatic effort with regard to iran is far from complete .
a prolonged recession and economic malaise dented individual saving rates , while banks no longer have the resources to lend tranquility for many retail investors , whose trust has been severely eroded . in the wake of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the country ’s banking system . as a consequence , the major recapitalization of italian banks and the establishment of a “ bad bank ” to devour npls was deemed unnecessary . an implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks were bailed out and equity shareholders took the hit . ten years later , italy is no longer this imagined land of prosperous banks and happy savers .
kwasniewski ’s seduction strategy appealed to large numbers of the young and middle class but most of all to peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . many poles are wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its ardent presence in politics . so the man who has spoken a great deal about future riding in power saddled with the votes of the past . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that , for many former communists in opposing the church , pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . this connection , after all , is kwasniewski ’s presidency .
if donor governments truly want results , they should pull the money out of the often-separate aid bureaucracies , and pool it in just one or two locations , the most logical was the world bank in washington , and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . a consensus has now emerged around the need to assist the smallholders , but the obstacles remain . “ partnerships ” ” of donors can become the expensive end in itself simply delaying real action . perhaps the central risk stems from the fact that the un assistance bureaucracies ” now traveling over each other to try to get their hands on the $ 20 billion so that much of it is going to be taken from meetings , expert consultation , overhead , report , and other meetings . one or both of these agencies would then host a few billion dollars .
after all , the brics economies are likely to be the most significant source of future global growth . in fact , they represent more than one-quarter of earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , almost 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange assets and gold reserves . at the new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss establishing joint institutions , particularly the common development bank , which can help to mobilize regional savings . at present , the brics countries represent a loose , informal bloc . they represent more than one-quarter of earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange assets and gold reserves .
as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fears competition for jobs – sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties throughout europe . a key difference across the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( over 3 % annually , the highest rate in the eu ) . norway and may , among other things , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling increased real incomes . on the contrary , he will have to change the conversation , in order to appease voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , britons , like their counterparts elsewhere in europe , feel overtaxed for spoiled public-services insiders , while agitating that their incomes have been declining for the past five years .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” that is not to say that the obama administration made no effort to boost employment . as a result , policies to boost employment by quitting , say , this calendar year needed to have occurred in the us only a year ago , having time to have arrived at their full effects . some countries – china , indeed , has undertaken such labor-market policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefit . others , like the un , did not , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % .
for more advanced goods , the eu value-added ( when the intangible part of the manufacturing process is in europe ) is quite high . sectors with superior human-capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have far higher r & d costs than the shoe industry , so that manufacturing these goods on assembly lines in a low-cost country are probably not very costly when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . imposing trade defenses against such goods , even if legally warranted , is likely to create problems for globalized european companies . many argue that such problems put the price to pay for ensuring that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , though the measures have worked like the eu , majority trade defenses tend not to be directed against anti-competitive business practices .
after all , us corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those running at the firm ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat on profits . america ’s legal system makes it all but assured that firms that make profitable , and particularly an unsafe product hold inconveniently liable for the consequences . likewise , environmental laws render firms liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the us , have been adhering to the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , us companies must pay how they do the harm they produce . likewise , environmental laws make firms liable to do their toxic wastes , and many countries , including america itself , have been enlisted by the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that us companies have had to pay with the safety of what they produce . motivating corporations to do the right thing is even harder to solve .
the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change was made across europe and even in china . so why is there that little debate has occurred in the us ? is it because those who opposed such discussions reject climate science ? or do they deny the science , because accepting it will legitimize an economically activist state ? we need not look far into such a mission in the light of us .
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no into the treaty of nice . enlargement is the most important item on the european agenda , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone . well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that are trying to slither around and through some practical difficulty , while postponing others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important , because it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and the distribution of power among eu institutions that must be put in place before the union can admit new members . forgotten about what this treaty is all about ?
at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were starting to take off , for example , nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty , and to explain why its poverty appeared as ineradicable . simultaneous to this , a strong consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now thoroughly discredited . the crucial point here is not just that the economists had so much been wrong , but that almost nobody was getting things right again . with the supposed benefits ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that have occurred over the past half-century have been little understood , and seldom ( if ever ) economists ’ prediction .
but wade has postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 and , later , by presidential decree on june 2007 . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” show by opposition parties has been brutally repressed by the police and the three presidential candidates imprisoned for the day . as a month before the election , only 64 % of the citizens who read received their votes cards , ended up being denied him . this now appears likely to be around , but fair ? on june 28 , a peaceful but unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties has been brutally repressed by the police and the three presidential candidates .
princeton , nnj – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former us president larry summers touched off one an explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively proposed a gene explanation for the difficulties that his university has had in recruiting female professors in math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are on the average more gifted at these fields than women do , but that there is a certain reason for believing that men are more likely than women to be found at both the top and the lower end of the abilities spectrum in such fields ; and , of course , only appoints people at the bottom of the old end . now one of our time ’s most eminent scientists has blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for his describing the dna structure , found in london to advocate its memoir , avoid boring people and other lessons from science ’s life .
mugabe ’s initial visit to china in 1980 came with a mere six months after independence ; making march 13 more during his time in office ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials become even more frequent , operating roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . in contrast , kenyan presidents traveled to china just six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current president , xi jinping , made a state visit to zimbabwe in march 2015 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the bulk of their visits to the press for business and military cooperation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms . on the other hand , kenyan presidents traveled to china just six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 .
geneva – the global refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . but , for young refugees missing out on an education , a crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : its passage of time . school-age children make up a large share of the world ’s displaced populations . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees have been residing “ protracted displacement ” : they have been away from their homes for more than five years , and have no “ immediate ” prospects of return . of the 17.2 million people whom the un high commissioner ( the un ’s un refugee agency ) is responsible for protection , roughly half are under the age of 18 , which implies that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out on this occasion .
but how serious are these policy-making political crimes to which greenspan now pleads guilty ? against them , one has to set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golda ” performance at avoidance and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . the “ felonies ” that greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stem the late 1990s stock-market bubble , and that he should have done more to stem the late-1990 ’s housing bubble , and that he ought to have done more to halt the late-2000 ’s housing bubble . here , greenspan is holding down his ground , and pleads has not been guilty of it . in my view , they are misdemeanors ; in my view , they are likely to be better demeanors .
the truth is that the bds movement represents nothing less than a sinister caricature of anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . it is a campaign whose instigators together have no purpose other than discrimination , de-legitimation , and pummeled israel that , in their view , never ceases to occupy its discredited yellow star . to good-faith activists who may have been taken in duplicitous attacks on the movement , i would have said only that there are far too many noble causes in need of help to allow oneself to be enlisted in a dubious one . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators ; saving african women and girls enslaved by boko haram ; defending the middle east ’s ’s ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats ; and of course striving for a just peace settlement between israelis and palestinians . and it is better to know that history , should we hope to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes .
indeed , a 2012 nobel prize in medicine awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop by re-programming dna and cells , without altering their genetic architecture . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered the way to trick complex adult cells in the mice in order to regressing to their immature state , forming stem cells . before that , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be extracted only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . it is too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of “ epigenetics ” – studies on and off the writ large , changing how cell develops without altering the genetic code – gains traction . indeed , a 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop by re-programming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure .
but we do not need to wait for the root causes of displacement – sovereign failure , and civil war – that are addressed . the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed piecemeal . the financial costs of patrolling its waterways and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant . the claims could be prioritized and processed periodically , with refugees able to return in europe healthy , prepared to work or study . the loss of lives being inexcusable .
harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s average annualized growth rate has skyrocketed , to 9.2 % for the following 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between four nies and america allowed nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % over 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should amount to a similar 8 % over 2008-2028 . judging by the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 stood at $ 6,725 in 1990 , accounting for 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that ’s roughly the same gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the world ’s 13 successful economies studied by the growth pact . in order to realize its potential rise as a latecomer , china needs above all , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address its different structural problems , and develop its economy according to its comparative advantages .
the signatories have agreed to conserve biological diversity , rescue species and their habitats , and make use of biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . and the signatories have agreed to conserve biological diversity , save species and their habitats , and make greater use of biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknown , un-championed and impeded . in 2002 , the treaty on signatories went further , committing to “ a major reduction ” of our current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unfamiliar , un-sponsored , and unmet .
netanyahu , too , knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . it is because netanyahu has been driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means he might have destroyed israel , that one might have been amenable to a fundamental change in its position vis-à-vis palestine , provided obama makes visible headway in his drive to curtail iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that an existential threat that will pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . it remains to be seen if abysmally dysfunctional the arab world , as well as powerful non-state agents in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will react the way that obama expects this to occur . as john kerry , chairman of the american senate foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is no one way street ” in which the onus is placed solely on israel .
so we decided last year to figure out whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today or whether , in view of the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets across the us have turned out to be more negative . just as imemo economists forecast this question , most ( 66 % ) of those who responded that question in moscow thought it was unfair . we administered a identical questionnaire in both cities in 2015 . but a surprise was then : new york yielded practically identical results ( 68 % thought that it was unjust ) . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
in the latter version , interest rates converge and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstops its liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the american case , the euro becomes the “ local currency . ” and , how often can we hear about sovereign-debt restructurings ? prognoses for each case are starkly different . in the latter version of the eurozone , differential credit risks , and eventually the bank runs , de-euroization and default : the common currency runs at odds with member states ’ needs . like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out their southern , “ emerging-market economies . ”
indeed , in less than 5-4 majorities , the court has ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” and thus that any limits on how much money corporations can spend in political campaigns violated its first amendment right to freedom of expression . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the tariff at which vacancies in america ’s districts and circuit courts has sunk to its lowest point in 50 years . republicans , therefore , have a good chance of creating a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court that may last for decades , particularly if they won the presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode democratic checks , like campaign-finance limits , which were dealt a damaging blow in 2010 to citizens ’ united decision . likewise , republican obstructionism in the senate has put other levels of the federal judiciary at risk .
lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . yet they are unlikely to derail his rule alone . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s ’s post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a sudden shift to a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , elsewhere , including mexico , chile , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that we ’ve seen in venezuela and bolivia . calderon ’s task will not be easy ; on the contrary , it will be impossible .
next year will be critical , to mark the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . france will have a new germany government , the european parliament election , and , by the end of the year , a new european commission . nobody wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection . there remains time to react – through demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over shortsighted policies , but that time is constrained and the clock is ticking down . it is here that , at least , political leaders should devote their effort to the effort .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . nowadays , we asians are witnessing , near daily , tortuous political assaults on the tools and policies that have helped to lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to devise a way to accelerating our already steady economic growth . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome us economic aspirations on the way it once opened up its arms to china of its rapid rise as an economic superpower , or , in earlier decades , cheered on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . indeed , that year , free trade looks set to become the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s anemic populists and demagogues .
broadly unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia centralists have been able over the past few months to form a united , parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined the ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central government in iraq ’s natural resources , and a postponement of a looming referendum to settle the state of kirkuk . here is also noteworthy . here is where sunni-shiite cooperation is coming in the making . here , here , too , sunni-shiite cooperation is noteworthy .
yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . hence the truth has to lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless at policy ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader . the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated europe or a boundless world . political fervor , it seems , has not vanished in the streets of rousseau and danton . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french never come to believe that the nation-state lacks power , nor that globalization .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . failure would expose the world ’s future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty in the wake of more frequent , intensive , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . the warsaw talks are staging posts on march 2015 at the united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will attempt to forge an agreement that avoids dangerous levels of climate change defined as global warming of more than two degrees fahrenheit . but this does not have to be like this : the warsaw meeting provides opportunities to galvanize action on one of the most nefarious forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies .
in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . and , indeed , the g-20 has placed few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria on an “ wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its rio +20 summit in turkey in november . “ every year , we are already consuming around one-and-a-half the planet resource worth , ” ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices are needed to ease , rather than to make matters worse . ” similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change andly argues that “ infrastructure developments and long-lived products that lock societies to greenhouse-gas-intensive pathways can be both difficult or extremely costly to change . ”
while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed without additional data , there are many arguments in its favor . for example , the fed has pledged to keep interest rates low , at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , a move that arguably kept long-term borrowing costs low . that pledge alone stabilized borrowing costs and cut interest-rate spreads dramatically for struggling eurozone countries . perhaps the most telling recent example of the central bank using forward guidance was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to safeguard the euro ’s survival . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy activism as governor of the bank of england , announced forward guidance on short-term interest-rate hikes .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and placing diplomats on earth . this would not be an easy process , and it might well meet considerable iranian resistance . but iranians had diplomacy with other members of its main interlocutor in the talks on its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 fitch group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and america ) and the resumption of iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten communication lines and close the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 . yet , just when the us adopted a “ bomb ” and talks ” approach with the serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be prepared for sanctions and speak ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
to keen observers , the ipl represented more than a sports league ; it signaled no less than the advent of a new india . in the ipl ’s glitz , glamour , and far outlay the antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that has spawned economic stagnation in india at the turn of the twentieth century . here was a venture , constituting a new vistas for business and firing young people ’s imaginations to emulate entrepreneurial energies revealed by shoppers , their promoters , coddiness , and even their fans . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up across the cricketing world . anybody watching the ipl might , however , be tempted to conclude that , twenty20 cricket , the “ good ” shape of the game , is really anything of an american game rediscovered .
at the 20 th century ’s ’s ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and ecuador ’s other massively sovietized societies ) appear more like a “ neo-feudal ” state than to a modern society . this superficiality produces results derived from the fact that , although communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” idea , modernity in romania goes only to skin deep . state banks , nation approved public-sector societies ( trade unions , for example ) , large state-owned enterprises ( enterprises ) , act little differently in romania today than , say , feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at a whim , for instance , they can be exonerated from pay taxes or have their posts and work acquired unchallengeable by laws . for this is a state where group , class , even individuals struggle over privileges that are accorded , rather than according to talent and work , but rather according to the status groups in which one belongs
but the fundamental problem is that , until now on each historical juncture , the palestinians refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed to achieve nation-building . on the other hand , diplomatic means may deploy the release of an israeli soldier and place a stop to firing qassam rockets from gaza in israel – a daily occurrence that challenged the credibility of a new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements that the palestinian authority set under yasir arafat turned out to be another militarized , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees . this was the failure , as it did , that brought hamas into power . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in british palestine .
for them , the american people rank above all the strategic counterweight needed to rebalance china . in asia , indonesia may look “ european ” ” ” ” in its obama craze , but it essentially represents an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s short-lived indonesian upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , majorities in asian elites await the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . at their mind , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and its vision of an america “ bound to lead the ” is largely unchanged . for example , japanese elites have usually preferred to continuity over change .
canberra – late last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump threw kindergarten insults at each other ’s – “ rocket man is up for a suicide posture , ” ” ” trump told kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” kim retorted , while threatening to reduce east asia to a post-nuclear wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are meeting ways to meet it . north korea is the nuclear problem from hell . but optimism about this turn of events needs to be tempered by cautious realism . north korea reportedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to speak straight to trump , whom has agreed .
they tend to have proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than middle-power status , and to a limited niche-style influence that enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . nepad , a new partnership for africa 's development , an organization dedicated to promoting decent , appropriate standards of economic and political development across the continent , has laid the groundwork for such a policy . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that has accompanied mandela 's retirement , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration , to , say , brazil , india and nigeria . such powers seek an efficient and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some cases global ones . south africa seeks a broader , more influential role , reinforced by its perceived standing as a regional hegemon .
immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey suggested achieving economic cooperation with the us . it aspires to join the european union and would pull the eu toward our 3 borders , even as the us , too , aspire to join one day . now , in the immediate wake of the napoleonic wars , turkey ’s leaders stepped forward once again to assume a leadership role at the caucasus . indeed , turkey never missed the opportunity afforded by the us as a regional broker . earlier this year , as the nato american-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement begin to falter , turkey has taken up the job of middlemen in the two israeli-palestinian conflict and the security conflict between syria and israel .
as neighboring sri lankan , india , would face disturbing consequences if they returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which will not sit idly by as long as sectarian strife intensified and the shia become targets of a resurgent taliban . indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is mounting that as foreign troops leave , afghanistan , again descend into civil war ultimately brings the taliban back to power . my fear is that the us has not seen the final of al qaeda or the taliban . that is why “ bringing forces home early ” has become a prime target for western politicians who are engaged in the region . the west needs each other before the bloodletting begins again in earnest .
an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that apply equally to all is a market economy . a market economy needs to rest on the accepted economic principle of profits and losses . a law that applies to all other companies should apply just as well to the banks themselves . and governments must respond to bank threats by declaring a willingness to allow insolvent banks to be allowed to be judged properly . moreover , eu governments should make sure that insolvent banks have loans to non-financial companies , just as the private customers of contemporary , fixed-term , and house savings deposits by reforming insolvent laws .
when a similar issued emerged in the 1970s , the so-called “ recycling of oil surpluses ” – that is , banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin america , postcommunist poland , and slovakia – communist romania . that was hardly a good idea , because it led to the massive ( for now ) debt crisis of 1982 . but , again , what can these banks do with the money ? from the perspective of international investors , too-big-to-fail banks are the perfect venues to park their reserves – just as long a sovereigns in question remain insolvent . but gross flows of capital range from emerging-market to emerging markets , via the big banks now , implicitly state-sponsored lending in the us and europe .
companies in south africa are stagger from losing so many aid workers to aids . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat of african development . ” yet the plagues of the transition have caused more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . when they give way , illness , despair , and death rub in the distance of the disease . so set aside as these diseases become infectious and can easily be disseminated , or the notion that the fortunate hold some of the moral responsibility of the welfare of the poor and the sick is merely thinking the economic impact of the plagues of transition .
turkey insists that visa-free travel to turkish citizens visit the eu , with eu member governments promising in january , should be delivered this year . but while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made before the end of the day of the coup attempt . this is why the coming months , when both turkey and the eu stokes contentious issues are so critical . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet the agreed terms , including overhauling its counterterrorism legislation , that may not happen , an outcome that may have been even more probable by a coup attempt .
so long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state of their own , conflict will erupt . yet , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupy west bank and east jerusalem . moreover , during his recent electoral campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would bar establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank through “ control of the entire region . ” on his word , we should be taking him to account , but we also know what to do it . as he knows , the settlements amount to a physical roadblock stand in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state .
heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . it failed to prevent the money supply from contracting early in the great depression . then , when financial stability hung on to its balance , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate hindered effective action . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but those reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretionary power , more on boards , and a wider role for the new york fed , all in order to allow the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in crises .
america ’s federal reserve board pumped up trillions of dollars of reserves , but never have so many reserves produced so little monetary growth . pittsburgh , the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reports that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , got the better of the “ hawks ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . the report was right but misleading , for it failed to mention why there is so little annual inflation in america . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected that . were the doves right , or were the doves ?
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births was proven to have reduced newborn health and child deaths annually . moreover , cutting the birth rate , which is extremely high in many lmics , would help reduce strain on these countries on health-care systems by diminishing maternal and newborns care and immunization . by cutting rates for unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women in need of contraception would avert 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . this is not just good for single mothers ; it is also good for single mothers .
the saudis also recoiling under a barrage of criticism from their wahhabi brand of islam , one that is universally blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the land above-the-the-ruler , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently handles much of his authority . as minister of defense , mohammad has pursued the entire saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record , including the deniability of elementary rights to women , is coming under continuous scrutiny . against this backdrop , the united kingdom is waging the struggle against its enemies .
new york – the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the us has failed to exclude the taliban from afghanistan altogether , ruling out the possibility of becoming a haven for terrorists . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , and america ’s impending reduction of american military presence in the country , are a clear acknowledgement of that . at the same time , the us has achieved many of its starting core objectives . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to decry the end of the longest international conflict in us history prior to the 2020 us presidential election .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and un . we had a range of experts , some 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries , to try to provide an answer to a simple question : “ what should it take to double the private infrastructure investment of emerging markets ? ” the ebrd aims to encourage training of the critical mass of specialists from ten countries in our region , and we believe that certification can become as respected as the funk held by a chartered financial analyst or a member of a project administration institute . one useful tool in the effort is infrascope , ” a benchmarking index , produced by the economist intelligence task forces that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asian region , latin america , africa , east europeans , and the ex-soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . emerging-market officials earn accreditation by demonstrating the power of applying their knowledge practically .
meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , total violations of international law , and minimal demands for peace detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the “ quartet ” ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . the results are mixed , at best , for good reason . the obama administration is revving its repudiation of getting both israelis and palestinians to agree , at least , on security terms and their borders . america ’s efforts , led by the special envoy george mitchell , have shown that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimum necessary for peace . palestinians have complied with every israeli and transnational security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , providing lip-service to the two-state solution , has yet to elucidate israel ’s borders .
with it , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions , or even entire classes in major emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980 ’s , when mexico imposed a moratorium on external debt servicing by commercial banks on foreign lenders . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions , or even entire classes of major emerging economies . the same feature occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , quickly spreading to other east asian countries . it became broad-based emerging-economy crises in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payment payments by commercial banks to foreign lenders .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff members at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming that it is impossible to contribute to economic growth . but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is removed from the perspective , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because median financing for projects has fallen by over two-thirds . in fact , debt is another side of the development dilemma . over the past decade , a joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor country initiative , and its extensions , the supplementary multilateral debt relief initiative , have made substantial progress on debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states is experiencing the 2012 presidential election – one that will , alas , continue to rage through the summer – it must be a frightening display of what america and their leaders are unaware of us foreign policy . to have even known that the chinese perspective appears to have been disqualifying for huntsman , who soon ended his candidacy . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some genuine intellectual heft by making several useful points of his handling of mandarin , some other candidates have reacted with derision . after debate reveals the fact that none of the candidates seeking to challenge president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those that do not even include us troops . indeed , ignorance seems to add strength to the candidates ’ remaining in the race .
i have helped launch the first safe schools initiative after boko haram kidnapped 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . nigeria ’s initiative is focused on public school and community interventions with special arrangements for the most at-risk , vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortification , linking schools to police stations by mobile telecommunications , and creating community safety groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and youth themselves – to build safe learning zones . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government and international donors , as well as a multidonor trust fund , established at the un . the first set of schools has now received funding , and the first cohort of the most at-risk girls has been repositioned to government schools in the secure regions of the country .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the un climate change conference ( cop25 ) in paris , they must tackle more than future carbon-reduction targets . they must also address damage to the people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
a one-year cut in the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced our gain in nominal wages , causing the real mean weekly earnings to drop in january , while the continued fall in home prices reduced wealth for the majority of households . as a result , the real personal-consumer expenditure rate rose at an annualized rate of just about 1 % in january , down from an earlier quarter of ’s ’s 4 % gain . this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong growth in 2011 , with more output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , that projected recovery in consumer spending did not happen .
instead , we are left with routine microeconomic measures to prepare people for being algorithmic employment , – that is , the use of big data to match people with the jobs they will need to remain consumers . here , we are told , future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-relevant education , and with portable social-security pots to help them bounce from one automated workplace to another . for example , it emphasizes miami dade college-based college-ready programs in animation and game development , operating with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota has been building its own advanced manufacturing capacity technician program to give a pathway for academic students seeking careers at the company . on training , the reports are calling upon employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ”
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year , a un un report on progress toward achieving the sdgs indicated that the number of people facing hunger is indeed rising , as is the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of climate change emerge much faster than anticipated .
as a result , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such schemes , consisting of over 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for further progress . in the meantime , south australia has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enabling the share of renewables in power generation , from practically zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today . the basque country has established a program called local agenda , designed to foster the emergence of community sustainability plans across the region .
in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility , allowing their currencies to depreciate , struggling countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves on the deflationary vice . like britain in the 1930s , countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . frustrated efforts at doing something – anything , defending their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” ” duties and import quotas in order to compensate for the loss of competitiveness created by their own increasingly over-valued currencies . but the limits of trade were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had little to arrest the downward spiral of output and prices . they did not do as well to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo in nearly two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . nowadays , the drafters surrounding palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process begun by the oslo agreements paved the way for the palestinians . the hostage of an impossible coalition and a settlement movement by the ugandan fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s government is in serious jeopardy . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of palestinians nor to govern through a democratic means . its palestinian counterparts hardly appear to be in a better position .
the result is a vicious circle in which government has found it increasingly difficult to do what needs to be done . this has nurtured a growing sense of hopelessness , particularly among men , who manifested in the rise of unlabor-force participation , aggravated by health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . but government interventions are critical to tackling developed-country problems that markets can not address on their own . countries experiencing high and rising economic inequality have often faced up to political instability and policy dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , losing credibility , and becoming choked by gridlock , suffers , and the odds of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while the arsenal was “ iranian . the vestiges of these lmarkings remain : the amina of amsterdam continues to be taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers still divide religious affiliate , celtic being catholics and public-rangers protestant . but a joint race , or even religion , is not essential . the tribe can be a club , clan , or nation .
in the language of its agenda , “ no one should be left behind . ” in a new report to be launched at the imf-world bank spring meetings , saving children papers a glaring gap between health risk , which is heavily skewed toward the poorest children and benefiting from public spending , is often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries are furthest toward the targets would benefit from the fastest progress . in the language of its agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” the world bank could help to improve accountability to realize that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on a pace at which disparities on key indicators , from mortality to education , are being halved .
my personal recollection of north koreans , now nearly ten years old , is of a impoverished , depressed country . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : the price of rice had tripled , while electricity consumption was down by two-thirds since two decades ago . pyongyang , the capital , was dark and deserted , illuminated by the cavalcade taking us from its official housing into the opera house merely in order to return to obscuraway the us . kim jong-il was greeted with similarly fervor when he entered the opera house , which today marks the public mourning of his death . my trip occurred in april 2002 , a rather optimistic of times .
in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying , back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a period of three years . female employment has risen , and women aged 15-21 % have become 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth over this period . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to become full and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . such far-reaching change will not be easy to achieve , but as long as girls can remain in school longer and have decent job opportunities at their disposal after they graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later in life . but there are also other gender-related goals that must be considered .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north ’s fevered response : “ we are not hiding our feeling of repugnance toward it . ” choe son hui , the us vice foreign affairs minister , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” should washington stuck to “ illegal ” and outrageous ” belligerence . the north had no interest in any dialogue aimed at cobbled together “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the “ world knows all too well that the us and russia are , neither libya nor iraq , which have met miserable fate . though trump distancing himself from bolton at the remarks , us vice president mike pence warned more than three weeks later that if north korea did not produce a deal , he would effectively meet with libya ’s ’s ’s fate .
after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – interrupted only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated an enormous stock of foreign liabilities , equivalent to more than 25 % of its gdp . with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , american foreign debt is rising fast . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , about a third of today ’s levels at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the outcome was a precipitous drop in the value of the us dollar , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner rather than later .
princeton – the united states has moved from the ranks of the presidential race to the low level of a single political sex scandal in just one brief week . for many non-americans , the election has brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , while the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . back then , the election reminded many americans that america is best at stake , only to follow a sadly familiar process of knocking heroes out their own pedestals . in fact , both the us election and petraeus ’s resignation fall are pieces of a bigger whole : an america living up to its promises . the us election has reminded many americans that america is best an american country committed to and able to achieve progress , – of moving ahead of its ideal vision .
the first casualty would be whatever little scope remains for international policy coordination . in reality , one key justification for creating the international monetary fund was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit goal of curbing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is one reason why the swiss move would emerge as a surprise , at least initially . it is certainly true that the franc has appreciated in real terms by as much as 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 . the other , indeed , would be the world ’s international monetary system as a whole .
add to that a well-functioning welfare system and a clear reason for why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere gains little traction in germany . likewise , die linke ’s call to shake nato , combined with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in most of western germany . a wake-up call by björn höcke , the afd ’s longtime leader in thuringia , for the “ 180-degree turn ” ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the nazi era ’s misdeeds , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland hreference to “ disposing of germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s integration minister of regions – in anatolia , ” repelled voters . the second , frequently cited cause for germany ’s resilience to populism , is its economic strength . the country ’s overall unemployment rate is currently at record-low , with gdp has grown by almost 10 % since 2013 .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing individuals and online media to propagate so-called “ fake ” news and disinformation that “ disrespects ” the state . enormous fines have been targeted against independence publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of journalists , have ramped up their repression in recent years . us president donald trump is trying to drive in the same direction . his steady branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of men ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred labels on media : lügenpresse ( lying press ) .
absent the full benefits of trade , much of rural africans struggle on subsistence levels . bush might think that america does a lot to help it overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minuscule . blair ’s africa commission , just like the un millennium project , has learned that africa needs around $ 50 billion per year in aid by 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total , at around $ 15 billion per year , is the highest in the world . yet official american aid to africa runs just $ 3 billion a year , and much of it covers salaries for american consultants rather than investments in africa ’s needs .
today , north korea is the ninth state with nuclear weapons , join the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , nato , india , and pakistan . the danger , therefore , is that we may fast be approaching a tipping point . how the world responds to north korea probably affects the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . central reactions to north korea of the nuclear test have been uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) at un security council resolution 1718 condemning the test , demands that north korea resume full-fledged cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a wide range of military , political , and economic sanctions . maintaining the peace in a world in which literally scores of nuclear triggers will go far more hard — and the implications of failure far more destructive .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will serve as director of the national bureau of commerce , the new white house office of policy , which will be established on a par with the us national security council and the national economic council . indeed , navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks . the titles of its two top books , deaths from china ( 2011 ) and a crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) , speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . navarro is also one of america ’s most extreme china hawks . the titles of his two of the most up-to-date books , deaths by china ( 2011 ) and a crouching tiger : what is china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases .
but , because policymakers consistently threatened to wind down qe , the markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to maintaining stimulus . the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely moved on ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the eurozone ’s inflation became , de-anchored ” from its monetary-policy decisions . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is straightforward . the ecb then declared victories and prematurely withdrew qe just as europe ’s economy slowed .
experience suggests that importing laws and legal norms rarely works well . indeed , for centuries , western law arrived with its colonial rulers , and there was no crime at all . even after european ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in postcolonial countries . meanwhile , in many cases , such imported laws were either ignored , selectively enforced , or were enforced solely in the form , rather than substance . america ’s antitrust law , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , led only six criminal prosecutions in thirty years .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as traditional customer business models are to get revenues not from their readers , personal academic companies see potential returns not from the consumers themselves , but from the compiled databases , likely in form to sell access to them . ” drug companies and other firms may well be eager to buy bio-banks on which they can test their differential products , according to patients ’ ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called pharmacogenetics , ” ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages , and more effective therapies . but other firms have been charged with having a greater stake in developing a “ biobank ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of samples and data than with a genetic test . there is certainly nothing wrong with this , but it seems curious that customers effectively pay a firm to donating their dna to its database .
the question is whether the coupons ’ change , possibly coupled with an extension of maturities , would suffice to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with german-level interest rates , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite large and far away from the deficits today . and , with the face value of its debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger . european banks holding greek government debt could , in turn , keep pretending that it is worth the full value of greece . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to refuse greek bond yields as collateral .
combining social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it harder for even reform-minded governments to escape a trap of short-termism to lay the groundwork for longer-term development . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion made those economies seem fragile again . admittedly , current-account deficits grew , stemming from frequent foreign-exchange crises . against this background , “ neoliberal ” reforms – such as the rapid economic opening and the financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . venezuela is a case in point .
indeed , portugal is so explicitly tuned in the consumer tastes that shifts can indicate changes almost immediately in some society . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that a better quality video-signaling would make their product seem more satisfactory . but high production values seem to have , in fact , to be less popular . thus , a “ casual ” generation of ” generation has been embraced , analogous to the design of a worn and ripped apart jeans . movies produced for the sex-gratification of consumers reveal the cultural norms of restraint , fortitude , and otherness .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done – and still do . but he has never been able to aspired to be able to run a country in this way . at the same time , the question is which has become worse in politics . clowns have always played a role in politics . neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to be a democratic leader .
eventually , cities and urban-based areas , driving the bulk of new wealth creation , will provoke a countermovement . so , if they are to survive and thrive in today ’s more egalitarian political climate , they will have to arrive at bold solutions . during an earlier era of urban-based dynamism , in the early sixteenth-century andes , wealthy merchant families built lower-rents that were then committed to the poor . one such project , the fuggerei complex of augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing to that day . if they were driven out , or otherwise , to exclude those earning less , they would have sacrificed the openness that made them attractive first .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , in the early twentieth century ’s early twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , over the dreyfus affair , exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of french algeria that , after all , he did n’t want their votes to support his government . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition and hold them up as a model for today ’s eu leaders . for what will be needed to hold the territories that the republic had almost lost to the fn is political courage in a sort that , for the moment , is in short supply . nor was charles mendès france in the 1950s hesitating to tell the communists that he did not want their votes to support his rule .
but in the aftermath of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional incarnation , the organization of the north atlantic treaty , would fade away . it did not , because our bonds are based not just on shared threats , but on shared ideals . and we know that these kinds of landings created a unique bonds among our continents . that bond remains vitally important for conserving our values and our security . it could not be more off here than our desire for freedom could wane .
in so many areas , the chinese have been so clever . they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , which recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the borders of the chinese state ? china does not , on its own , have any favors by the remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960s when it debated this issue . it is , i hope , not derailing the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their countries emerged once again as one of global leaders .
sarajevo – ever since the twin catastrophe of 2016 , the united kingdom of the brexit referendum , and us president donald trump ’s election , there has been widespread anxiety about a “ “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called direct democracy ( the us ) . in the uk , voters have been tasked with responding to an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , a 2016 republican party primaries are handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to re-empower the “ “ gatekeepers ” gatekeepers , which is a polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should keep going as far away as possible . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
berkeley – to resolve the problem , it is not enough . in fact , you need to implement solutions – and be willing to change course if you turn out not to know quite as much as you had assumed . that is the message of two other recent books that , combination , tell you everything you needed to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to prevent it from being repeated , and why those things did n’t yet go where it was . the first book is the shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who starts by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for the great deal of economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . its starting point is the enormous restoration of wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % and its consequent pressure for people , governments , and companies to assume on increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
the second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receive our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , whom , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial norms , today we acquire it via peer-to-peer sharing . this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic norms of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . such peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance . without a traditional institutional gatekeepers , political discourse no longer relies on a common set of facts .
robert putnam , a preeminent scholar of america ’s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , ” ” ” the trust that binds communities together . indeed , robert putnam , a leading scholar of america in a declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation of declining “ social capital , ” ” ” ” the trust that binds communities together . simply put , americans trust each other even less than they did a generation ago . furthermore , heavy tv viewing helped to foster social fragmentation . to be sure , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated .
it flatly contradicts the repeated assurances given by china ’s rising leaders that the rise of china will bring little more than “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . lurking beyond china ’s ambitions in space is the spirit of the cold war that continues to permeate us military high command circles whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . in fact , this dangerous , irresponsible , yet another key sign yet again , is that china ’s rise as a global power lacks all the assurance that it will become a peaceful nation once it grows strong . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , america maintains its dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . yet , since the 1980 ’s , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space effort .
illegality and wrongful wrongful was artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science-test natural law , " the survival of the fittest . " today , indeed , it is the turn of molecular genetics has been the world 's turn . distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed at the molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , " asserting that human beings are anything but " programmed " entities . temperament , obesity , hearts disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : all is said to reside in one 's own genes . every time , a new , powerful scientific formulation seems , must go through an era of abusive application .
around its picturesque squares , each of cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne tacit witness to the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ rise and fall . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european town ; but , for the last five days or so , it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by a russian-built bank of russia . at a time when russia and ukraine remain very much at war , policymakers , local citizens , parliamentarians of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians pack the streets of lien viv to celebrate world-class jazz . even so , now where one can find hope for a european promise . beyond its vital cultural and geographic location , ukraine is strategically vital to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact making and proposed policies , but the tentative read indicates limited short-term benefit at big long-term costs . in fact , obama has outsourced the detail of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress and , unsurprisingly , the old house barons constructed it with pork and social engineering . a few months later , just 4 % of gdp was spent on free trade , and the federal government browbeat sovereign governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small pay cut for some unionized workers , or losing $ 7 trillion in stimulus funds . ( intervening at contractual relations ex post to enforce the demands of union is an emerging characteristic of the us administration . ) the administration is tapping a crisis atmosphere to enact a huge agenda that should re-engineer the american economy , from its autos and financial services to healthcare , energy , and income distribution .
unfortunately , in a world without shared institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of a all-out war will increase substantially . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration is scarcely constantly talking about upholding the post-war liberal international order . as europeans well know , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic contest in which the american should look only at itself . to be sure , the us says it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
this , combined with massive chinese public - and private-sector investment ( enabled by high – and , more recently , excess – saving ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . the american consumer , meanwhile , benefited mightily from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . the old model had served both parties well over the last three decades . china 's growth was driven by labor-intensive us exports to far more competitive levels through technology transfers and knowledge transfers from the u.s. and other western countries . accordingly , american employment moved into higher-value-added activities , in turn promoting higher-incomes in america as well .
a profound change in us strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit their long-held assumptions about their collective self-defense . in fact , when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato , the us . then came trump , whose administration stepped down the rug out of hand , abandoned america ’s leadership within a rules-based international system , pursuing a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policies . this is not the first time that nato has appeared to be on its latest legs . many arrived at the same conclusion prior to 2014 , when the alliance had little to concentrate on beyond its mission in afghanistan .
first , fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently pushing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . meanwhile , mounting oil prices are contributing in other key economies as well , with rising oil prices contributing to additional inflationary pressures . as a result , america ’s federal reserve is continuing to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and this will probably press up short – and long-term interest rates like america ’s dollar . meanwhile , us inflation is also rising in other key economies , with rising oil prices contributing additional inflationary pressures . first , fiscal-stimulus policies that push america ’s annualized growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable .
in fact , american and chinese troops may have only themselves cast their blame . increased sand drift was one of the effects noted during and well before the first gulf war . this is because the deserts in the region normally have much crust , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sanders and clay particles that have baked into each other or sintered , through their heat lines and the sun . sometimes this crust is strong enough to make a person , and sometimes not , very much like the hard ice crust that develops on snow in colder climates . under the crust , the particles of sandy are loose .
other women , like his autocratic mistress judith campbell , supposedly had sexual relations with mob figures just as good . this reappraisal of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960 ’s occurred in other arenas as well , reinforcing kennedy ’s image , from charming running playboy to dangerously compulsive predatory predator . similarly , a series “ buddhist men , ” ” ” ” ” ” with its dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness , and destructiveness of early-1960s , male sex prerogative . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded since then , a process that , as much as anything else in america ’s culture , has played out on tv . popular series like good wife ” show the pain and suffering of souses who are expected to retain a stiff upper lip , and the ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards .
oddly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , approximately 2 % of the bank ’s total lending and credit exposure to just the one hedge fund ! one central lesson of the last year is that financial-market problems lie not only with hedge funds – that is , by the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks displaying an uncanny ability to make trouble by the excessively risky gamble , either in loans to emerging markets , or the likes of the ltcm . ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises and how we manage them . when the push came down shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . the banks that loaned vast sums , mostly unscheduled , to ltcm , are the same things that put in roughly $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and subsequently abruptly reversed gear and yanked tens of billions of credit in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination receives considerable attention nowadays . of course , private-private coordination has been the essence of economics for the last 250 years . while adam smith began us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand was taking care of most issues of coordination , in an intervening period of intervening economists found all sorts of market failures , informational imperfections and incentive problems that gave rise to rules , regulations , and other forms of government and societal interference . even the world economic forum was transformed by “ the international organization of public-private cooperation . ” the plethora of centers for examining business and governmental relations were formed , with researchers producing huge literature on design , analysis , and evaluation of public-private partnerships .
while it is easy to be cynical ( some might say that the new program is just a pretext for cutting funds from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively upgrade re-education and skills training is a good bet . recovery from the harm trump is inflicting on institutions and political culture in america can take years ; if it does , the economic cost could be significant . for starters , a broad set of studies – from the work of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . the us president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . but , while the trump administration has strengthened america ’s economy at its long-term growth potential in some ways , the other ledger is rather gloomy .
but a 2 % growth rate ( a respectable tariff for an advanced economy ) would represent a drag on russia ’s standing and putin ’s own personal prestige , and might endanger domestic stability as long as jobs lose out in critical manufacturing industries . indeed , most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at rates above 2 % , without another steady rise in oil prices . that would provide a platform for renewed trade , transport , and other ties among ex-soviet countries , and for tapping regional markets on behalf of russia , ensuring russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political clout in its old neighborhood . putin is perplexing about how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth . his main proposal , so far , has been a unified “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus and kazakhstan .
with national supervisors often inclined to present the rosy image of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope to hope that reviews will become more robust than the earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those trials , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all major horrors to be seen before a takeover occurs , lest it be blamed . but establishing a banking union has not been the only important change to european financial regulation since the crisis . the few banks that have walked away with flying colors were soon compelled to raise fresh capital .
not all have succeeded ; nonetheless , the achievements ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the reason is fairly simple : would there be a politically easy way to generate growth , it would already have been realized . the key to ensuring europe ’s future for all , and hence its social model , is faster growth . the obstacles to growth are well known , and have existed for a long time without being removed . and , once again , it is hard to see how more europeans would improve the situation .
typical was the russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which succeeded in getting a major gold mine and then accounting for about half of a plant producing gold alloys . many state-owned firms were privatized over ten times that of a sums yielded to asset sales under the previous georgian government of edvard shevardnadze . but an utter lack of transparency enabled by russian firms and their subsidiaries , registered in third-party agencies , to snap most of the new offerings . in georgia , russia ’s main foreign-policy tool is gazprom , its state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom aims to dominate not only georgian gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russia ’s natural gas to both georgian and armenia .
protracted fighting , coming just eight months after a promising peace initiative – known as the goma treaty , ” ” ” – means more civilian deaths and little chance of normality return to the east of congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is no less intense congo suffers from the indirect effects of war . as always , major victims are caught in the crossfire . a mortality bombing carried out by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world with the deadliest crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of war and its lingering effects over the past decade . today , one-quarter of the two are refugees , almost half are on territory under rebel control and nearly no access to aid .
it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization , the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years , were characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . henry kissinger once said that “ peace can be achieved only through hegemony or a balance of powers . ” perhaps the same could be said about trade , or even just about globalization itself . like all economic activity , it thrives when property rights are honored , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs , and other barriers are removed , and so on . of course , dealing with trade requires more than the absence of conflict .
for smes , externships provide a much-needed and creative manpower . as properly integrated into a student-education student , externships can provide the competitive edge on college application essays and at campus , or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . to larger companies , these companies are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . our education system can no longer afford to wall its way out of the industrial world . externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbue the prelessness spirit in their students .
but several million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in households with per capita income of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in either india or africa . the towns and cities that have lost their factories to globalization also have lost their tax bases , finding it hard to maintain quality schools – the escape route over the next generation . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under fire . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the middle-aged laid-off white working classes whose children find no place in this brave new world . finding shelter in the united states about that income makes it so difficult that , say , $ 2-a-day poverty almost surely works far worse in the u.s. than in $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa .
others might be using services , such as intercom , to gain insight into its users ’ interests , as well as from their preferences in music to its favorite hobbesian handhobbes , in order to offer a more personalized service . indeed , many online services now offer a connecting users with their facebook friends or linkedin relationships or to recommend activities or restaurants based on past due process or current location . web startups might even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel list database , viewing them as a potential source of funding . once a company identifies which users have the most clout , well-known bloggers , for example , it can offer better treatment , in the hope of rerecommend service . some people do n’t want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with the entities knowing so much about them .
french catholics now feel like though their historically privileged positions are under assault , through the rise of islamist and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , as well as legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu , with its campaign conspiracy theories , talk show , online trolling , and fake news , which has fueled trump ’s campaigns . with france becoming smaller catholics and america becoming more diverse , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election , and fillon ’s political ascendance , they can not simply be written off . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage followed a tipping point , while left-wing catholics find themselves crammed off the far right . but fillon ’s followers , too , reject multiculturalism and reacted to their position of anxieties by dismissing established expertise .
for better or for worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private banks . when they want to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy from private banks commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then have more cash to lend at any time . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people will transfer from their bank accounts to their libra wallet , leaving the less able central banks to stabilize the economy . and vice versa , as the authorities want to keep the economy humming .
with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic surious tactics at the un , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . despite its long history of alliances dating back to america ’s revolution and including two world wars , france always had a rather ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the war in iraq was not the first time that a controversial us security-foreign policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show a similar decline after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960s and early 1970s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls show that fully three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states .
when countries create tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from the rest of the world , the result also leaves less money for education , healthcare , poverty-reduction programs , and climate-change measures . indeed , tax competition is not the way forward ; not least because it reduces the funding needed for such investments , particularly in developing countries , which under the imf ’s 2015 report , lose out on more than $ 200 billion a year , owing to tax avoidance by multinational corporations . that should not be allowed , and us multinationals should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are raised . after all , a fundamental tenet of corporate social-responsibility law gives firms the ability to pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . they can do this by diverse ways , such as by investing in education , financing scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure .
mediocre market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility likely to become more frequent . mediocre market returns are arguably lower , with episodes of volatility seemingly more frequent . what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs had coincided with bull markets . index performance had largely dictated safety selection , and asset allocation meant little more than accumulating into stocks , bonds , and credit . yet these days probably ended , too .
cambridge -- economics teaches that measure an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods he or she or she can consume . consumption options are in turn maximized by providing firms with the liberty that they need to seize new technologies , dividing labor , developing economies of scale , and ending mobility . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis . no one can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric vision of economics has produced many low-hanging fruit . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis .
some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . some estimates put the internet ’s contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . a fragmented , “ splinternet ” would be very costly to the world , but that is one of the possible futures outlined last month in a report by the global governance global commission , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now connects almost half the world ’s population , and an additional billion people – as have some 20 billion devices – are forecast to be connected over the next five years . fragmentation – meaning that the end of the internet – is a real threat .
but it did little inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal could help to bring about an end to america ’s great economic malaise . by contrast , the apparent relative strength in america ’s economy today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications over the last few years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet and software , for example – that were indigenous people to the u.s. . fracking ’s revolution , widely viewed as occupying america ’s , has helped push lower energy prices and have eliminated america ’s dependence on foreign oil . that sounded like an attractive experience – perhaps a kind of learning experience , for youth who would otherwise be idle and unemployed .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supply – part of the reduction in unpaid care work that women perform in the developing world . this ambitious agenda wo n’t be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and according to nongovernmental organizations . at the same time , it will require complementary investments , creating job opportunities for women , and introducing measures to help women move to more productive work . measures proven to improve access to education include building more secondary school , ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in the places where they are studying , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school . mgi has identified several interventions around the world that could easily be deployed more broadly .
heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , they are beholden to their interests , and not always have the political support that it needs to get the job done . more importantly , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments use coercion – banned under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees . the iom , in particular , lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments use coercion – ban under international laws that aim to repatriate or relocate refugees . but , like the unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . the unhcr , like the unhcr , is not the autonomous , nonpartisan agency it claims that it is .
companies , meanwhile , became more aggressive in their efforts to slash their tax bills , including through the so-called inversions , by which they are shifting their headquarters into lower-tax jurisdictions . with policy gridlock blocking an adequate fiscal response , after the 2008 financial crisis , the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a fundamental component of responsible economic management , for five years at least , central banks were forced to bolster economies artificially . to do so , they relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large stakes of financial assets . as a result , most countries confront a trio of inequalities – their incomes , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another with far-reaching consequences .
according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote based on nationalist and religious sentiment , and antipathy toward secular coastal elites rather than for personal financial interests . and even the administration ’s plan to favor the skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants in rural areas . all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in populist dress , that is a pluto-populist . but why does his base leave him fudge with pursuing policies that are mostly detrimental ? but how long can anyone be expected to support “ god ” and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” ?
while all other large european nations have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which every physically-fit male citizens , aged 18 to 27 , must serve for the following 12 months . another soviet military legacy is the obligatory conscription system . exemptions rely on medical conditions and be handed over to university students and workers in specific organizations ( such as the police ) . poland received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians regard it as special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . unfortunately , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , however one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , switzerland , and luxembourg – and containing the population of 10.5 million . it is also filled with praise and moderation when it comes to its climate , history , and culture . the first african region to be christianized , it has been at the land of saint augustine and a major source for catholic evangelism in africa . it once was a pillar of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and its empire .
ever since the failed arab spring revolutions , of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between a radical islamist regimes and an army rule . arab countries have a long history of rewarding fellow journalists who toe the official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who would have dared to speak truth to power . true , any arab – indeed , virtually everyone – knows exactly who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist had to mask the culprit speaks volumes about the fear felt by at least independent journalists in the arab world . indeed , khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxieties .
third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . second , complex tools should be traded on exchanges , rather than on over-the-counter markets , and they should be standardized in a way that allows liquid secondary markets to arise . it will be difficult to retard financial liberalization , but its adverse side effects – including more systemic risk – require a broad set of reforms . first , there is more information and transparency about complex assets and who hold them . fourth , rating agencies ’ roles must be rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agenda and become a primary power defining their own future and that of their own countries . for starters , the region of ’s states needs to develop its own national-security capacities , resist non-existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism . of course , they should continue to engage with the outside world and strengthen their strategic relationships and alliances . but they , too , must become less interdependent for the others .
this wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a broad range of developing countries . now a new paper by servaas storms is effectively dissolving another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor markets “ “ rigidities ” depress output and employment . besley and dygess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in fewer output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not adopt these regulations . that conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial prevalence , and that the way to increase production and employment in the production and production of manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for such an argument is paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , which uses manufacturing data across the indian state for the time being 1958- 
disrupting migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense of border controls . britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether at least across the lines of the english channel or in china or california or chile . downgrading migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense of border controls . meanwhile , security concerns are increasingly implicating foreign and domestic policies at once . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers taking off in a mission , with one pilot saying to others “ “ “ “ it looks a long way ” to bomb a handful of south london young people .
following that election – perhaps heady with the magnitude of his backing – he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws on the organization of society and the economy . those laws , already approved but not fully implemented , should serve as a catalyst for fresh institutional arrangements within a country , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and people , and progressive , hollowing out of democratic institutions . in light of this history , it is noteworthy that , in his doomsday speech , chávez has called for a form of coexistence , dialogue , debate , and more for everyone to work together for venezuela ’s good . in the meantime , every governing body – all of them , now obey chávez – now obey chávez . he emphasized that the people had voted in favor of chávez and socialism .
our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain our genes ’ integrity , even in the presence of damaging agents . at the same time , products of ordinary metabolism can be damaged as well . indeed , genes can be harmed by environmental factors such as radiation and chemicals . so long as damage occurs at the key genes regulating cell growth , “ cancer ” can develop . occasionally , however , the damage is not being corrected .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force , allowing innovative start-ups to compete with established businesses , disrupting entire industries , and creating new ones . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere around the world . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now largely owns it , and , rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s underlying inequality problem . but , as some of these startups have grown into the behemoths , it has turned this power on its head .
in announcing a new , sino-us joint research effort , chu has described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by working together , we can help to realize more than [ by acting alone ) . still , one is left wondering whether this new , collaborative bonhomie , together with ethnic bonding , will prove strong enough to embrace not only the long history of distrustful interactions between american and chinese , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s path of sudden economic rise ? “ but the developing world may be able to make it much worse off . ” for , though the us has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high-water mark for us diversity , americans have often displayed a xenophobic mistrust of migrants drawing too close to power . in the chinese case , in particular , fears of divided national loyalties and the “ fifth pillars ” ” have been powerful .
this also implies that , if greece could escape from its current recession , its national debt would shrink , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . greece ’s economic weakness increases its current level of deficits . five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . in greece , five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects of revenues and outlays have put the overall deficit in close to 5 % of greek gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a huge change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed frontier in the himalayas . when i first visited india in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining an equal standing with china . in 1998 , after india tested its nuclear weapons , its defense minister referred to china and then prime minister , atal bihari vajpayee , spoke of china as india ’s number one enemy . on more recent visits to india , by contrast , i find my hosts alluded to the need to learn from china .
given that hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not necessarily work with him . the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has given out new anti-friendly regulations . so , if it is given the stick , rather than the carrot ? while one can debate the appropriateness of a tightening book at the center of a crisis , his executive is totally justified by the banks , particularly at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near zero cost . fortunately , by the end of the crisis , we have a good independent test , and monetary authorities could always do the job .
while one has to price risk more accurately , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with a debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be assessed as a higher form of default risk . but now even the mighty bund have started to suffer from heightened market anxiety . second , and in part as a consequence , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debts are trading at a discount relative to german bunds . third , financial-market participants , and , increasingly , actual companies are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not beyond the end of the eu itself . this remains hard to think of as being unthinkable , much less work out the specifics of it , but now any rational player must reckon with the possibility .
indeed , by chance , on sunday ’s young soccer fan had been assassinated in moscow , with vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration to host a meeting with michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . one quote from surkov that day is especially telling : “ make ready on the ballot , ” train your brains and muscle . those arabs were placed to use outside the kremlin walls that were very day . that meeting took place as part of a rally led by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists . you can always count on our backing , but we also know what you can do .
hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit frog once lamented that , “ it ’s not easy bein ’ greenpeace . ” today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy , only becoming green that poses the problem . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if the world sticks with “ business-as-usual ” ” global temperatures could rise by more than 4 ° c , far beyond the 2 ° c increases that were deemed “ safe ” by the end of the century . this prompted united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge the world ’s political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to get the new global agreement on climate change through 2015 . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little , unless backed by big investments in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables .
the organization and the allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflects a worldwide equilibrium that vanished long ago . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect the realities that had long dimmed from the us . the search for a new head of the imf ’s executive directors provides a keen reminder of just how unjust today ’s international institutions are . after wwii germany and japan were ousted aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that would have brought mao ’s communists to power . much of the so-called third world was either recently independent or remained colonies ; all of it was extremely poor .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made last-minute appeals to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the people ’s movements in the uk . merkel refused , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony here is that merkel now faces the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . but when immigration levels exceed a country ’s capacity to absorb the newcomers , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short run . while immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long term , especially if the ratio of pensioners to workers rises .
the odious debt idea was revived in the influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 paper by the center for global development ( cgd ) , which suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism aimed at preventing the accumulation of odious duties . the cgd report suggests that the regime should consider odious when it abuses human-rights violations , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriation of public funds . the mechanism would assume the form of a declaration that debt issued by a particular sovereign would be considered incontrovertible . such a declaration reduces the flow of money to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries should not enforce debt contracts ) . in effect , this is what the trump administration just did .
that cleared the path for bhutto ’s return , which had remained deputy prime minister until june 1996 , when she was disbanded yet again in this time , this time by her own overseas peoples ’ party . back in 1997 , sharif was ’s ’s turn again , as president . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and a new election brought to asif zardari , the july widower of benazir bhutto , who was ousted earlier december into the presidency . but his military-to-military confrontation has intensified over the years , resulting in yet another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . ignoring his constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer the executive authority to his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers to serve under him to follow through on his orders .
over the last decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew at an average rate of 2.6 % . for the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate dropped by more than 50 % , to europe ’s level little more than two children per woman , while per capita incomes grew at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . the rich countries ’ shift away from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity has been conditioned on a profound demographic shift – seen in the 19 th century , in western europe and in east asia throughout the twentieth century , where fertility rates fell dramatically . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp declines in poor countries , which are now showing solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , fertility rates declined from more than 4.8 % to 2.9 children per woman over the past 15 years .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to establish a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , one of which is now meeting the american-led indo-pacific initiative , under trump . there are also both countries on a similar path militarily . it has built and initiated his first-ever aircraft carrier , while planning to launch a larger deployment . though china still has so much catch-up to the us , its overall defense expenditure is already second only to america ’s . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defensive systems .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous level of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force is available for order . the resulting power has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts at national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia and saudi arabia ) . indeed , the us ’s partial withdrawal implies that ending enforced stability in the old middle east will not preserve the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq are already suggesting just as much , and the future in both lebanon and jordan has become increasingly precarious . one obvious feature of the region is that none of global power rivalries are currently playing there .
that means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption goals – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with a much slower pace of gdp growth than in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy may hit the same labor-absorption objectives that demanded 10 % annual growth under china ’s prior model . with industries like manufacturing and construction at suboptimal rates , why are services so vital to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are already far more labor-intensive than countries ’s traditional sources of growth . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more employment per unit of output than manufacturing and construction .
indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces in the eu ’s member states would strive , with their increasing achievement , to compel their respective countries to withdraw from the eu at central issues in domestic political debates and election campaigns . now the united kingdom seems certain to hold , by 2016 , a brexit referendum on remaining in the eu by the end of the year , together with the far-left parties – determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s general election next autumn . but the worst-case scenarios for the eu ’s future look increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece ’s exit from the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaves the eu ) , and the spanish electoral outcome that resembles greece ’s . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain exiting the status quo or a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . should such a perfect storm happen , the eu would be in doubt , because other member countries would consider or begin to plan their own post-eu futures .
new york – today , leading economies are entering recession . and yet , in this gathering storm , it has been hard to find a single truly effective accomplishment by global leaders . beneath the surface , climate change negotiations are going around in circles , with the aim of hindsight . meanwhile , oil prices are at historic highs . aid to the poorest countries is in disarray , despite years of promised escalation .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur economic revival . in just a few short years , the package of pro-market and economic opening seemed out of step with the outside world . frustrated , frustration even ensued with a paragon of open-market politics , chile . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone in politics , with frustration and uncertainty weighing in the future overshadowing hope .
little wonder , then , that a kind of survivalist chic chic has become an updated version of the frenzied , communal chic of the 1960s . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america ” ; ” but in america now , it is the morning after . this drive toward off-the-grid , eat-what-you-uplifting , bike-there-ench , solar-powered collective fantasy is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hoping that more consumption makes them happier , and were abandoned with a pile of stocks . americans had lost faith in those whom , over time , purred , “ trust us . ” they were asked to admire the middle class at the top of the income pyramid , only to find that they viewed in the pyramid scheme .
in fact , by camouflaging ’s offense as defenses , china casts the burden of starting a war on its adversary while seeking to lay the foundation – brick through the hegemonic middle kingdom . this shrewdness not only keeps its opponents off the balance ; it also under-cuts america ’s security assurances to allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed the knack for disaggregating its grand strategy into multiple entanglements , then pursuing each component separately , in a manner aimed at enabling various pieces to fall into place with a minimal level of defiance . to be sure , china has caution to dodge any dramatic action that might turn itself into a casus belli by itself . chinese leaders have made a point of glossing over territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving status that no one can afford without firing a shot .
los angeles took decades to implement pollution control , but other cities , such as beijing , have converted fast when they see the benefits . those cities are learning from one another , building on good ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and altering complex , interconnected systems , and successfully managing shared resources successfully , although it has so far given the inexorable rise to global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the coming decades , we may be seeing a global system of interconnected , sustainable cities emerging . if successful , everyone would want to join the club , with the goal of building a seat .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing at the height of the people ’s congress . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” so named for a greek historian who has chronicled how sparta ’s fears of a rising athens have made war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war ” : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to concentrate on the remaining four uns . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party ( ccp ) has killed millions of people , enzzed the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s conventional culture ? what , then , is a sensible perspective in china ’s recent history ? chinese intellectuals are prone to evading the matter , shrugging off it as irrelevant , and acting too awkward to contemplate . finally , things are moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please do all that may upset that hopeful movement . we need to look ahead rather than backward , to say the least .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? every case , in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , trick , or hide behind the front . the paperback files reveal the extreme and sometimes costly , lengths that individuals go to conceal their assets and avoid taxation . and they are all instances where this effort has not worked . the worldwide uproar triggered by the panama papers , 11.5 million files taken , appear seemingly with computer hackers , in the global offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – are likely to continue for some time .
some will say that the lethal keynesian mistake was enabled by greece ’s acceptance of the euro . that the country was not at all unprepared should have been clear about the country . but that answer depends far too simple , given the lack of such signs of dysfunction to greece . some will say that the fateful error was enabled by greece to adopt the euro firsthand . that the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but challenges another day .
unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating nowadays . prime minister david cameron and chancellor george osborne blame the euro crisis ; in reality , they blame their own economic illiteracy . that policy was destined to manufacture a financial crisis because it was tied to leaving governments and cheap banks with depleted assets and bigger debts . depressions , recessions , contractions – call them what you ’ll – occur because the private-sector spends slightly less than it has done in the past . despite austerity , the uk ’s forecast for the uk ’s structural deficit has increased from 6.5 % to 8 % , demanding an additional £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cutbacks every year .
paris – last month , the concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have surpassed 400 parts per million people per million over the first time in roughly three million years . if current trends that fits the worst-case scenario set by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century – with devastating consequences . indeed , predicting the world average temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 ºc triggered by such high-ambient co2 concentrations is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in ipcc scenarios , including a loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . moreover , even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already find too big to avoid dire consequences . to prevent the imposition of such risks and insecurity on future generations , global carbon emissions that stand at the 8.5 gigatons annually must be halved by 2050 .
as a result , good science is the cornerstone of both policies . the us has turned a corner to rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are environmentally sustainable . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , greater international cooperation is crucial to the long-term health of the world ’s oceans and sustainability of fisheries and fisheries jobs . the european commission has just produced a proposal to reform the common fisheries policy , aimed at helping to rebuild european fisheries . but it is not enough to get our respective houses in order .
today ’s ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to new gendered information , big data ’s availability to influence decision-making in real-time , more focused , individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . further breakthroughs enabled by convergence in science and technology can be expected , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . technologies that engage patients in their own national health care , and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes , have the potential to become better at managing diseases , reducing hospitalization , and lower costs . in this process , partnerships between health-care and tech firms will become increasingly important . but they are only the beginning .
when the incentives for money flowing across borders are strong , they will find a way , abetted by the proliferation of multi-country firms and the expansion of international trade , which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading border controls . capital controls carry real costs even if they fail to inflame inflows . they generate a bundle of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or or able to have the sheer heft to get around the bounds . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have succeeded in finding their way around controls over the past decade . furthermore , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply lead it to be disguised in other forms .
in october , the international monetary fund will update its global outlook to forecast that only a handful of small countries would suffer a recession next year . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the risk-pricing calculus and potential returns . today , markets are easy to explain in terms of fundamental factors : earnings grow , inflation has been kept at bay , and the global economy appears experiencing a broad , synchronized expansion . and while systemically important central banks plan or have already started tightening monetary policy , interest-rate interest rates will remain low for the moment . political crises , however sensational they may be , do not wholly change investors ’ economic calculus .
just a week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , at the time of osborne , “ still teetered ” from osborne ’s on medicine , “ may “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ decide ” that they should have stayed in bed . ” instead , the tories had won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . what might possibly have gone badly wrong – or , rather , right ? more than once , krugman echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by the erroneous beliefs that were not shrinking the deficit , he might have been able to forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman as saying that britain was “ doing worse ” than it did during the great depression .
to my right sat dagan sat dagan , who just finished eight years as head of mossad ; to my left sat dore gold , a former academic and past israeli ambassador . dagan countered that a military ’s role is to safeguard israel in its frontiers , regardless of where those borders are drawn . israel , he insisted , can guard its actions against threats from the east only as long as it maintained its military presence within the west bank and controlled the jordan river – which runs along borders separating jordan from israel and the west bank . the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security , and they are worth recapitulating to their respective arguments . gold argued that going back to pre-1967 high lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ”
if a rip van winkle economist were to wake up today after a decades-long slumber and see only these numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing in lines outside of soup kitchens . the idea that an american wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic motic moon of some inreformed marxist in a barely corner of us faculty . but such a view is hardly ideological : it is the case . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong has taken his famous first step onto the web site 50 years ago . rather , the global interest rate scraping on the us , because gdp growth outside america is so sluggish .
as early as 2002 , new zealand ’s privately owned forest plantations grew by over 1.4 million hectares per person . though not scaled up for climate purposes , those trees soak by carbon dioxide at the national level . for the safety of france , the country also bought huge amounts of foreign offsets , including highly imagined ones from russia and ukraine . but growing forests also made the reduction of new zealand ’s co2 emissions relative to the 1990 ’s . new zealand has been able to include such concrete emission offsetting emissions in its global figures neatly balancing the actual rise .
berlin – europe is at last beginning to move past its multi-year economic slump , but that remains unsettled . there is ample evidence to indicate that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . thus , they decided to jump off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” for every cause of optimism , there always appears to be a new cause for anxiety . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promise the twenty-first-century may have held .
new york – the fundamental outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became starkly apparent in the united states in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its own character . and it has moved the focus of american foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how it operates beyond them . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its own character . all of this differentiates obama from his more immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected collaboration with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries beyond their means .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to cap their emissions go a long way toward becoming fair and effective ; major improvements would include establishing a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . such a bank would also ensure that no emission-trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example , through the full-scale sale of unused emission-credits made by individual developing countries at the start of the contract period . for the moment , all this remains utopian to the world at the moment . even so , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not far down the path of de-carbonization ( such as the big parts of africa ) or abandon it in time ( like india and pakistan ) have ever become wealthy by helping societies that must de-carbonize fast . up to that point , nations ’ wealth derived from coal , gas , and oil comes at the behest .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton has blamed her losses on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that has preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe might admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s african commissioner , had an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede land to europe as special economic zones , on what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” in many countries , politicians and media have been portraying the refugees as a security threat , cultural cohesion , and publicly funded ways . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , except as a stopgap measure . such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not spell the end of the crisis .
ever since 1988 , iran has had a government-funded system for purchasing kidneys . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme wiped out the waiting list for kidneys in that country without issuing an ethical mess . a charitable association of patients arranges the transaction , for a set price , and no one except the seller gains from it . a more systematic study by the iranian scheme continues to be needed . the 2006 bbc televised program showed many potential donors to turn away because they failed to meet strict age criteria and others who had to visit an psychologist .
moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the function of a newly created international monetary fund . at the moment , however , the two narratives were diverging . with the advent of the cold war , us president harry s. truman ’s administration and america ’s congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . to that end , they authorized the epu ’s use of up amounting to $ 350 million of the marshall plan funding . the concern then was discrimination : european countries , concerned with the us , would find it easier to import from one another ; but , absent dollars , they would still refuse to import from america .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom , and the presidential race in the united states , have demonstrated , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the rise . that distrust could derail a new trade deal currently in the works , impeding , and preventing , ones from starting . the dangers implied by such a scenario should not be underestimated . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people . isolationism and protectionism , if undertaken too far , would crack the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity for decades .
the mauribe-lula-calderón axis appears to be set up on keeping it there . but the recent rise in us commodity prices has meant that traditional regional powerhouses in chile , brazil , and mexico have experienced economic booms in their own hands . chávez is the loser , not only because he provided the farc moral backing ( he once described them as non-nato troops , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” not terrorists , and publicly labeled uribe an american stooge ) , but also because it is believed that he was delivering farc covert military support . that backing has appeared as part of chávez ’s own “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has employed venezuelan ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba , in hopes of building up regional anti-americanism . over the past three years , there have been serious grounds for believing that latin america is drifting through one of its periodic blocs of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s then-president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez .
for america today , the real question is only whether it will lead to a short , sharp contraction or a more prolonged but shallower , slowdown . with house prices plunging , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes , sometimes , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thereby getting the economy ’s problems on its head on to the next us president , like it is up to the iraq quagmire . even when the american federal reserve continues to cut interest rates , lenders wo n’t rush to poor mortgages . at the same time , its chances that it will be succeeding are slim .
as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu . but , with linguistic training and the pursuit of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and job creation ( which aims to create an innovative , “ learning economy , ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies , mobility could be enhanced . given the risk inherent in betting against policy convergence , labor mobility – which creates value for human capital , particularly the well-educated young people , who leave lagging regions for those offering more and better job opportunities – could prove to be a critical adjustment tool . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , either . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu .
fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or irkutk , not in paris or budapest . nowadays , most of the russian elites feel that themselves are not just europeans ; i believe it is all too european . “ it ’s not america , you must work here ” -- is a popular joke . culturally we are predominantly european , yet 8 % of our population is moslem and where we inherited too much from asia : collectively citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history . many new russians , working like machinery 16 hours per day , look out for themselves rather relaxed western counterparts with contempt often located in asia 's tiger economies .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to curtail work in affected areas . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . that represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously won international acclaim as president , and the nobel peace prize laureate , for her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar . while suu kyi has no control of the military , which runs a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies .
in march , the un will probably invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering the formal treaty of leaving the eu ’s withdrawal procedure . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that ensures the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set a timeline only 18 months away . while eu-wide relations are not at their best , the dialogue between the two parties must continue in 2017 , not least because of their joint interests , which are based not just on economic interdependence , but on a refugee crisis and on the collective fight against terrorism . european politics next year will consume the brexit negotiations .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia is a robust model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities deny non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in their own faiths – a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayals of islam . in addition , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a classroom of penalties within sharia law that might imply strict limits on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their beliefs . international action on press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits as well . according to america ’s own human-rights record , curbs on religious freedoms have included demolishing hindu temples , near-bombings of the christian church , and a ban on practices by shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has continued to have very high ” limitations on religious freedom .
the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is another . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report has stated in uncharacteristically strong scenarios that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . but the recent revelations about antarctica are different . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the sea level will rise . there are not much human activities , whose impact can reasonably be predicted for decades , centuries , or even millennia of advances .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of the lives lost , economies shattered , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is a continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing of american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed while sleeping at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . violent extremism and espousing it threatens to undo africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but for decades to come . african countries are especially vulnerable to violence ideologues , owing to the rise of weak institutions and ungoverned territories that extremist groups can germinate . while these attacks garner the world ’s attention , most people do not realize that , just in the last five years , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa .
the huge $ rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . the first problem is china ’s household economy so dynamic on the surface but also so rickety under-neath . the analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside the micro failure . but the price turned out to be an increasingly severe misallocation of capital , resulting in growing portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household savings inflated a real-estate bubble . moreover , rosneft argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged dysfunction of foreign demand .
xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for “ a new kind of great power relations , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of long-term conflict between a rising power ( as china ) and established power ( america ) . but , in the american view , this is vastly different from the organized domestic strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . for these reasons , the bilateral strategic deficit is growing . on human rights , the us argues that it does indeed have fundamentally profound differences between the two countries , ’ political traditions , and current systems . moreover , the us is insisting on its nato not containing china ( as it did the former soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise was made easier to gain access to us markets , just as it did to global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization .
for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among business companies . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls to employees rather than to capital . still , market liberals would dispute that corporate taxes “ distort behavior ” and stifle wealth creation . still , market liberals would dispute that corporate taxes “ distort behavior ” and hamper wealth creation . a nonpartisan american congressional budget office and the us institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have demonstrated that well over 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls to shareholders , rather than to workers .
in holland , no private medicine is possible . physicians are not gods , but they increasingly play god by rejecting the use of life-extending techniques for the patients and families who want them , and they are even willing to pay them . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients may be to leave the country or go to the courts . european welfare states , meanwhile , face a profound dilemma . there is little doubt that holland spends hefty sums on caring for old people .
after all , some developing countries in asia are working quite differently . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , running roughshod over environmental concerns and rights for many years . indeed , the parallels to the old soviet union are striking each other are not . unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese infrastructure development model can be exported universally . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , simply because courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts .
that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very substantial reductions in per capita tax rate . but congressional republicans may insist on paying for cuts in personal-income tax by limiting deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . likewise , it is easy to fall into the thinking trap of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . the tax plan put forward in the name of republican tax cuts by paul ryan , speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charities and mortgages . and even when there are the revenues to be made as low as those it could be from airports , companies may be discouraged by the need to rely on long-term pricing deals .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for not having met their environmental challenges . in fact , observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is everyone ’s most frequent accusation : that increases in poaching are endangering species like elephants and rhinos . in kenya , by contrast , an innovative , wide-ranging conservation project is playing out . beginning in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” ” ” ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered buddhist rhino from the ravages of poachers , is backed by what very people potentially oppose it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive land area .
there is nothing cyclical in view of the enduring aftershocks of a full-blown balance-sheet recession that has now become visible for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely started around for us households , at least in recent years . the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from the 1.5 % low of 2005 , but one-half of the 7.5 % average recorded over the final three decades of the twentieth century . convoluted logic behind such a strategy is strikingly disconcerting , now not only to the american economy , but also to the global economy . moreover , there remains a massive debt overhang .
moreover , a desire to be admitted to the club led to favorable reforms across many aspiring member countries , particularly the central and east european countries that later joined the european union . europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as well as more recent messy bank detizations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . more recent rankling on the “ success ” ” side includes advancing some periphery countries ’ performance , particularly spain , reducing their previously uncompetitive unit of labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves top-marks to balancing germany with its demand for fiscal discipline and the mediterranean in need of reunification . a second , more early success was that , through virtually all measures of international use , europe instantly became the world ’s second-global reserve currency .
while germany still tries to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the distressed peripheral european countries face the real threat of deflation , with potentially disastrous consequences . the european union ’s economy is slipping into severe and , in all likelihood , protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to be taking hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . it is only a matter of time , – no longer very much or not , before economic destabilization delivers renewed political instability . if she is unlucky , the crisis will come to greece at the beginning of the end of germany ’s federal election year , and all earlier calculations might be moot ; for the time being , despite germans ’ frustrations with europe , the electorate will punish severely those who have allowed europe to default .
the ctbt is necessary because of the roles of nuclear tests in developing and improving nuclear disarmament . it sets a new standard on the treaty of nuclear-weapon obligations and verification . even today , thanks to a variety of sophisticated means , we can at least detect very small underground nuclear tests in distant locations . such trials are also political symbols that have no place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . the treaty is also fair — it includes equal rights and responsibilities for all of its parties .
the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hope rested , probably too many for any single leader . we need leaders with enough mastery of detail , like china last premier zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how we will get us back from a position to z , but might actually lead us back from time to b. or , when they do exist , they appear constrained by dysfunctional political systems . looking around , us leaders like this seems to be the extinct species . their ability to act is constrained by their political environment , not least in the short term .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june four , 1967 , is falling squarely within international law . the un security council resolved in november that year that “ buy territory through war ” is unacceptable . today , palestinians are seeking statehood on only 22 % of territory that was established as a part of mandatory palestine until israel was unilaterally established on areas much bigger than what was awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties have upheld that principle . in fact , a palestinian state based on its 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has urged .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world networked by interests and shared causes is likely to be more resilient than one crammed into an artificial , increasingly constraining , national state box . already , policymakers ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in confronting a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon the us and diplomacy to achieve its destiny . in that sense , economic success in countries like china or india can be those nation-states undoing , because middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . the question for international governance is how to provide frameworks and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . conversely , we may be finding ourselves in a world whose eastern half are organized into powerful authoritarian state structures with the west embracing poststate association models .
indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . at his 2013 third plenum , the ccp has announced 60 goals for economic and managerial reform . many hope that these changes will help the ccp become more efficient , strengthen market roles , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , the party ’s rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will be achieved . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests .
countries can do more to make it harder for individuals to walk away from iraq or syria ; europe-wide watch lists , for example , would help . but nothing would have an even larger impact than turkey ’s deciding that it will no longer permit itself to become a conduit , enforcing united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation on terrorism . in addition , such flows should be closed to both governments and financial institutions . another component of any strategy must be to counter is their appeal and propaganda . another component of any strategy must be to counter is their appeal and propaganda .
in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; in 2003-04 the “ oligarchs ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the enemy was the communists ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs of the ” ” ” ” ” . the us is now the us – the supposedly hostile west and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some or all this smugly , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to go away overnight . we also need to comprehend the mechanics of russia ’s succession of succession politics . political technology implies covert partnerships with fake politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to prevent a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ”
in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily , if not at the desired pace . the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative created a thriving , free trade system and an increasing flow of investment among countries in the region . thus , our challenge was not just a matter of reforming the state , but a society too – its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . our newly-freed societies today must learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we have learned the new language of economics and politics . through learning one another ’s languages , through cooperative collaboration on shared values , shared interests , as well as historical ties , central europe has demonstrated what spectacular results can be achieved .
local farmers welcomed a initiative that influenced decision-making to expand a fence to surround the hindu perimeter of an entire aberaberdare range perimeter . moreover , in thailand in 1988 , conservationists chose to fund and build an electrified sheba fence to protect an maldivian district bordering smallholder farms . the ring-fenced fence was intended to prevent intrusion into people ’s population degradation and park ’s habitat degradation . but it has also protected the smallholder farmers , whose crops were regularly destroyed by boko haram and other wildlife . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forests and vital areas of water catchment , together with a national park , are vitally important in kenya .
first , overall social inequality has grown unabated in the west over the last quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and , with it , the threat of expansionist communism . the specter of popular revolution drove western elites to use nation-states ’ power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . but when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s wealthy , believing that they have nothing more to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to surge rapidly . this was tolerable for as long as the global pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that . with popular support , these protests have had two profound causes .
in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of illicit narcotics trade at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . critics say that the figure is just half that – still a remarkable sum at a top . in many cases , colombia today is far worse than the rate of chicago under al capone . so , too , are other latin american , the caribbean , and the asean countries . drug prohibition effectively imposes a tax on global commerce on illicit drugs that are enforced by governments and accumulated by those willing to violate the laws .
tatiana insisted on launching bam construction in 1974 , a politically correct date , after which the use of “ clean labor ” was deployed . but that railway ’s first partition – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that runs farther away from the country ’s boundaries – was built by coerced labor , including russian-speaking inmates and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were exploited , not nearly as formal accounts claimed . lack of adequate housing and electricity , few reenlisted and many deserted before completing their term . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era brezhnev-era construction has shown what the dying soviet system still has been able to achieve .
the trouble with m5s is that it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote to secure a parliamentary majority . at the same time , whereas proportional representation determines two-thirds of the lower house seats , one-third opposes first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies , where m5s will most likely lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to ensure the majorities . in fact , the party grouping that benefits the most from the current electoral system will be the only it has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : berlusconi-led center right . and , with support at around 26-29 % , it remains popular despite its poor performance run by the national council of rome . as demonstrated with his electoral victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been building coalitions .
per india , a code of political conduct , budgeting was deferred until the previous elections . upa ’s ’s ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated travel-ups and freight outhours for rail services , unable to cover the cost of maintaining trains and tracks , far less enabling expansion and betterment , reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . it is true that coalition politics blocked decisive action , with a railroad minister being bawer summarily dismissed by his own party leadership , over whom the upa was politically unable to confront – after attempting to raise fares . yet , in the pre-election provisional interim budget , rama government finally bit bit the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % expansion for railway travel and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intent to bring about a rise in price increases , though officials made sure it was merely following an existing mandate .
many indians , notably india , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; likewise , birth certifications have become widespread only in recent decades . coupled with the government on the plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslims who are unable to demonize india or her provenance in india . while non-muslims would , by the consent bill , get a free pass , similarly gay muslims would suddenly be left to shoulder the onus of prove that they are indian . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural diversity . under a approved bill , muslim immigrants , however , are likely to be declared illegal .
having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily have caused europe to slide back into recession , especially given europe ’s close links to russia through trade and energy connectivity . compounding the problem , no one actually understands the precise links among russia ’s relationship with europe and european institutions and markets . is europe today poised to come to grips with a similar failure of an important financial institution ? financial sanctions on russia are neither targeted , nor fully credible . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 turned out to be utterly unexpected .
seoul – over the last 20 years , gdp has almost tripled ; with real wages soaring at less than one-half of that going forward , growth has become decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . at the same time , the signs of societal distress are multiplying . more than half of middle-income households spend more every month than they earn , and most people are receiving it . south korea ’s self-imposed divorce rate has more than doubled , birth rates have plummeted to the lowest of one among advanced economies , with suicide rates being the highest in the oecd . in fact , south koreans are distressed for two key reasons .
while the european union lags well behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons , its fight for terrorism is probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush 's manichean worldview that merely reinforced , rather than undermined , the enemy of fanaticism . it is precisely to avoid developing collective security fear that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and liberty . police actions must be merciless , even as this implies greater control and oversight . this may mean eliminating shadow “ tax havens , ” ” ” tapping telephone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
whereas in the house of representatives , mulvaney had received big donations from the payday loan industry , which makes most of its earnings from high-interest rates to people with no alternative when cash is desperately needed . mulvaney also devoted considerable time over the last two years to weaken safeguards that the consumer financial-protection bureau previously attempted to prevent some industry ’s worst abuses . as a government shutdown lengthened , the stock price of payday lenders soared . ross should have read the cayman baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks and reflects the high loan costs of lower-income families . or he might just have asked mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief executive .
seoul – a vast military revolution is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , the ex-politburo member and a former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on charges of corruption , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to allow the country ’s military assistance to its allies . despite the mushrooming regional tensions that have inspired these movements , china ’s relations with its arab neighbors and the united states are ill-prepared to lead in a more direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to fulfill the perceived “ one china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the imf , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways if this outcome is to be avoided . more broadly , there are three ways to enhance international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the last two years has had to do with a fundamental source of instability in our banking system , one that we can and must design beyond existence . in a serious financial crisis , banks are finding that the receding market value of many of their assets leaves them short on capital . they can not raise much more capital during crises , so , in order to restore equity adequacy , put a stop to new lending , and call into question their off-balance loans , throwing the entire economy – if not the whole global economy , – into a tailspin . to do that , we need to advance the condition of financial technology . this problem is rather technicalities , because it is its resolution .
he rejected wahhabism , the jihadists ’ ideological framework . but he maintained that islam is an essential part of the chechen tradition , and presented himself as a leader who recognized this fully . thus , he encouraged islamic dress codes and built a vast mosque , one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe . yet , enjoying a huge subsidies from moscow , kadyrov renovated grozny , providing it with some early security . kadyrov also catered to the chechen majority ’s spiritual aspirations .
the education system needs an overhaul almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to teach , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians acquire a powerful workers lobby hard . special attention must be given to elementary schools and libraries outside of the city . afghanistan poses particular difficulties in reconstruction because it is not a society with a strong political center . village housing must be provided at massive levels . roads , airports , and communication systems must also be revitalized if business is to be revived .
what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . it is indeed a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as the economy collapsed , is an molding event foreshadowed by every american central banker ’s consciousness . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping up to how officials conceptualize the problems they face . in fact , it is the capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cutting took effect , forecast a major reduction in joblessness , or the restoration of economic growth to brisk rates . by contrast , “ a disastrously bad turn toward austerity wrecked millions of jobs and shattered many lives , ” he argued , with america ’s congress exposing the americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-run spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks a very long way off , ” ” he warned . i raise all of this because krugman picked up the lap in his end-of-2014 column on the “ obama recovery ” of the us . “ and i ’m starting to worry that this may never happen .
even though many are in difficulty , it probably wo n’t be the best time to start a new car company in the here and now , either . yet while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , this could be just a good time to start trading a substitution of gasoline engines with manufactures . finland ’s smaller-scale initiative is called ecars – now ! a small operation in finland , it is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes to spring worldwide . borrowing from the täsänen software movement , räsänen and its colleagues want it to make an idea and basic designs of freedom , encouraging a big number of companies everywhere to implement it locally .
consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and to what degree a government is efficient . the united states , with a government that can hardly be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s accomplishments in chechnya seem like the height of accomplishments . where the criterion of effectiveness appears to be the ability to achieve all social goals , we are likely never to find this kind of point . nevertheless , i believe that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for the “ color revolution . ”
these and other funding streams helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand educational opportunities . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund the programs they might build on these bargains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s leaders have pooled their science resources earlier . in 2003 , the africa union and the new african development partnership began to perform continent-wide strategies to build and use science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integrate into the global economy .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s new investment bank lehman brothers , the world has still failed to address the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis – excess of debt . a majority of economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foreswear the crisis , but also believed that financial stability is assured so long as inflation remains low and stable . and , once an immediate crisis has erupted , the us failed to demonstrate just how painful its consequences could be . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 had anticipated neither a slow-motion recovery , nor an initial crisis that was essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel the knock-on crisis within the eurozone . and , once an immediate crisis was contained , the us failed to demonstrate just how painful its consequences might be .
the big difference now is that the uk will lose its vote on the table . for britons in the uk ’s “ remain ” camp , such a transition allows the uk to remain in the eu in all but name . and , for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is paving the way for an exit without falling off on a cliff edge . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition allows the uk to remain in the eu in all but name . a third agreement in phase two is at the center of a bid for uk-eu relationship after 2021 .
fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , and salafi extremists and theological moderates . fourth , europeans are finding it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women , or homosexuals . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we tend to view religion as something of an individual ’s relation to his or her own god ; muslims see it as organizing a social-democratic principle . muslims find it hard to see how we can possibly believe our societies are civilized in the face of pornography and drunkenness as their experience openly shows .
with the collapse of the soviet union , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe it had been forced to pull back toward the frontier that it had expended westminster since peter the great – ultimately on the elbe and thuringia . the answer can be found in the relationship between europe and russia . yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine as a pro-european orange revolution , which defeated his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine on the camp of russia . so why did the eu press for an association agreement without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ?
what is needed in terms of high performance ? basically , it is productive change that i call economic dynamism . less obviously , a country does not want a misguided or pointless change ; it wants an investment that appears to be in the financial sector only as productive . the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism is associated with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . for its employees to develop , must be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new problems for finding , the harder tasks to be mastered , the added abilities to strive for .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . at the same time , new public-interest concepts are essential for regulating new channels of public information like social networks . second , standard views about business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for such firms ’ monopoly power . above all , the general public needs to develop a deeper understanding of it ’s economic effects , particularly how the technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching the lives of so few . and , third , laws that protect private information should be re-evaluated , in order to ensure that it companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating their services .
geneva – with france launching its third-largest humanitarian operation in just as many years – this time in the central african republic , interventionism that seemed disenfranchised after america ’s invasion of iraq – it seems to have returned as an acceptance norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justifiable by their achievability rather than merit . to see how this shift has arisen is to see why , more often than not , interventions have failed to accomplish significantly its aims . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays calls for nothing less than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an unambiguous connection to ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation might also be referred to the un security council , but not until now , such interventions have failed spectacularly to influence events on the ground .
simplicity and elegance for micro - and macro models made them useful to explain the price mechanism and the equilibrium or imbalance of vital aggregate economic variables . yet both models can not be described or analyzed , by different market participants ’ actual behavior . he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failures because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession in ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith , that prized grand narratives about political economics and its moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with reductionist and mechanical models appears to have driven the profession from theory toward ideology , putting it outside contact with the real economy .
new york – the question of how to regulate access to gene sequence data is now cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the un food and agriculture organization . the next meeting ( cop13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , in early december . after all , such no-strings-attached databases will not only facilitate sharing ; they also allow for stealing . participants at cop13 must focus on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights . perhaps the single most important forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , a major treaty that regulates access to biological diversity .
demand growth at a pace that in any previous decade would have seen as highly satisfied is suddenly inadequate , and bush is blamed ( with some justice ) on the slack labor market that resulted . but , for everyone but bush -- and those left unemployed by the lag in demand -- this represents an extraordinary opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it is now , this is very good news for other , under-developed economies , particularly because one powerful effect of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make participation much easier to participate in the worldwide division of labor now centered in the us . as the world 's premier state economics , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it needs to create -- not just copy and adapt -- new technology , better forms of capital , and more productive entrepreneurial organization . the remarkable " measure of disintermediation " within america 's grasp will ultimately produce accelerating growth of actual earnings and real wages if only u.s. policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging " measures to " protect " against " output and employment .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including action on climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include using the platform leadership ’s unprecedented force to catalyze global-scale solutions . rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand with scaling up factory-farming operations , as corporations have done in the past , italy and france , like impossible foods , work to help reduce overall meat consumption , the major driver of climate change . this is propelling the most recent breakthroughs in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale . earlier this year , the artificial-meat manufacturer beyond meat celebrating a rapturous stock-market debut . to avoid another public backlash , they need to force such platforms to serve us not just as consumers , but also as corporate entrepreneurs , workers , and residents .
ontario , sweden – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge on buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings have never been easy , if not impossible , to resolve . some kinds of agreement are typically delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language is often murky . this time , however , the outcome could be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even the token agreement they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign . with the united states having historically led the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to contradict any other .
by obscuring the roles that local populations have played in the two nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives that can prove highly handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . at the same time , there are more extreme instances than among poland ’s current leaders . for one , the pis has staked its substantial electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies to political ends . poland introduced such a rule of law in 1998 , in 1998 . similar norms exist in poland , hungary , latvia , and lithuania .
admittedly , there are difficulty with every proposal to limit the scope of “ riskier ” banking , particularly with respect to a global economy with free capital mobility . there seems little appetite for proposals to alter capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . rather , eu reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital-adequacy requirements for heads of bank executives , as well as prefunding deposit deposit insurance through a peculiar levy on banks . this would allow capital buffers under good years that could then be drawn down in bad years . as is frequently pointed out , if banking regulations become identical across city centers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to the millions of americans who might not have it otherwise . and , contrary to us critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the costs curve may finally be bending to downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing , excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that , in fact , it will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unhinged : the united states is now ’ ongoing debates with india over its intellectual property . and here , obama appears set to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure of america ’s powerful drug lobby .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression at the united states , have shown convincingly that an economy in transition requires robust aggregate demand to pull resources into new industries . likewise , by carving up fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to reallocate to new industries that facilitate services and urban employment ; but this , at least at first , does make matters worse , at least at first – ’s demand shortfall itself . if both old and new industries run into an economy ’s slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital flight , and structural adjustment will stall . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting transformation via austerity is not the way forward . robust aggregate demand is always vital to a successful transformation .
london – how radically will digital currencies alter our methods of exchange and how we think about money ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . with an innovation in digital-payments barreling ahead , those questions are now pulling the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is on the verge of failure . if anything , israel has accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while by escalating its demands , particularly regarding israeli troop buildup in the afghan valley . while achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment unceases the united states to preserve even the façade of an “ peace process ” that was all the process , and no peace , at all . the negotiations are failing , for several reasons , starting with israel ’s continued colonization of war-torn lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the us . and that might not have been such a bad thing , either .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of the yukos affair , and as a lawyer has defended khodorkovsky and his junior partner , platon lebedev , following their arrest in 2003 . her request was denied because was her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her punishment until her two small sons reached at age 14 , a request she was entitled to make under russian law . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids for which treatment was withheld . in december 2008 , a moscow municipal court approved its release on bail of up $ 50 million rubles ( approximately $ 1,775,000 in the time ) . he was subsequently disbarred , and himself was arrested in april 2006 , only to set up as early as 1995 .
specifically , china should remove america ’s provisions to ease tariffs after the treaty is signed and for unilaterally re-imposing tariffs if the american concludes that china is not honoring the treaty . as a first step , china should propose an agreement , using the same text that was previously announced as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to meet its three “ red lines . ” and it should add the commitment that china execute the treaty in ways that are “ consistent with its own constitutional , normative , regulatory , and regulatory processes . ” moreover , they need it by the end of the year to prevent further damage from the big tariff hikes that are currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline demands that the two sides start taking symbolic and substantive steps immediately .
princeton – most of today , ’s advanced economies have become what they are by running a well-worn path of industrialization . the labor movement has led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . the progression of manufacturing industries – from textiles , steel , automobiles , and rising automobiles – has emerged out of the ashes of its traditional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into city ones . over time , manufacturing has ceded its place to services . peasants have become factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organizing .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
indeed , when compared to other forms of energy resources , civilian nuclear-power ranks higher than crude oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . another nuclear-power story – this one including costs beyond death and property damage , like wounded or irradiated staffers and malposts that did not lead to shutdowns or leaks – the documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 . similarly , there have been 57 accidents every year since the chernobyl disaster reported in 1986 . while just a handful of related fatalities , those that have collectively killed more people than have died in commercial american airline accidents since 1982 . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima catastrophe .
moreover , russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than to washington or new york . in contrast to some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , takes care of russia ’s own strategic designs . there is little doubt that both the us and russia will benefit , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of leadership . this might no longer be so simple , once america is no longer perceived as having been a reliable protector , and the fear that china turns into a kind of panic . some people , indeed , are not too disturbed by this .
and that , in turn , would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a massive array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , greater gender parity , gay rights , and more millions displaced by more than a half-century of struggle . the agreement also included an historic land-reform agenda . the negotiators decided that an unconditional application of justice was not feasible . but , if an agreement is negotiated in a well managed way , the end result yields significantly more benefits than the costs . for both uribe and his opposition allies , the primary objection to the agreement fears how it addresses the question of transitional justice .
by contrast , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and they probably would not have survived under the isis caliphate . for example , the american people were wrong to invade iraq in 2003 ; but , by joining the fight against isis , they were right to join the fight against isis and save the yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied territories of mosul , but it was wrong to try to reduce the city to dust . it was also wrong to call the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime because the force opposed assad lacked the popular backing and was unwilling to help the us win that support . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen south korean and japanese defenses , but apparently wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
the trouble began in the end of the cold war , when the collapse of the bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as a triumph of the market . just as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and aspirations could be organized . the individual became the ultimate agent of change , an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identities are derived not from class interests or other sociological attributes , but from the logic of a market that dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , consumers , or a voter . indeed , economics was positioned to be the pedestal and enshrined in institutions such as the central banks and the competition authorities , which were intentionally separated and made independent from politics .
madrid – madrid june ’s turkish general election delivered a powerful message : turkey ’s widespread democracy remains intact . indeed , while there have been some grievances over transparency during the campaign process , past democracy has survived , with a stunning 86 % of eligible voters turning out – a rate rarely seen in europe . with their votes set to appear , turkey ’s citizens have denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needs to change the constitution . moreover , by packing the peoples ’ democracy ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – more than 10 % of the vote , it allowed its party to enter parliament for the first time , with parliamentary representation all over the country , not just in kurd-majority areas . the rest of the world – and , in particular , the european union – should take note .
if an app succeeds , a refugee has the right to bring along his or her family members just as well . frequently , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope of obtaining the right to other family members to follow later . to distribute a burden more equitably , germany tried to have a european common quota system instituted to allocating applicants among the eu ’s member countries . but germany ’s eu partners rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” germany would have to address the consequences of this refugee surge over the next several years .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how the us election could turn out to be . every state is awarded a certain number of votes at the ballot college , depending on the size of its population . as a result of america ’s electoral college , it feels like not who wins the most votes nationwide on which matters , ultimately , but who wins in which us states . indeed , in almost every state , a contender who wins 50.1 % of the big popular vote receives 100 % of his electoral votes . the democrats who cross the 270 electoral threshold wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will embark on zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currencies , equities and stock markets . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely rise in the us dollar ’s value might , concerns , wreak havoc among emerging markets , us governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . given that all had borrowed trillions of dollars in the past few years , they would now face increasing the effective local-currency value of those debts , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thus increasing debt-service costs further . worries are understandable : when the fed signaled its intention in 2013 to end its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging countries ’ treasuries and onto us financial markets . but , though the fed ’s prospect of raising interest rates is likely to produce substantial turbulence in emerging-market countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crises and distress are more limited .
indeed , under chirac , france appeared increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and of the universalism of its pattern – the very charges so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding the commercial portfolio . faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote a realistic multilateral solution . chirac had compounded his error over iraq in his approach to a new european commission . on the contrary , despite being right about iraq , chirac has become insulated , isolation growing , because he has also failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush .
water-intensive food and power generation – among others – rely on uninterrupted supply . and the expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources further . urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for everyone . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes , enabling more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in making sure robust management and sustainable exploitation of scarce water sources .
while iran ’s leaders often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . ahmadinejad has taken advantage of massive oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings . but iran faced a similar economic difficulties before , during the 1980s , its oil exports plummeted significantly amid the country ’s eight-year war with iraq , and , in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low – and handled relatively well . four factors made the oil embargo seem especially unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports is proving more painful as world oil prices rise .
across-the-board nuclear equality , after all , can only give a boost to iran ’s nuclear claims . not only iran has developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party , the israelis argue , but it , too , has placed israel high on its agenda . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear-weapons state , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east political environment changes in a radically positive way . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which committed itself to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both see themselves as nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept this status . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat .
the genius of china ’s mini-move ( which allows the yuan to rise by 2 % against the us dollar ) is that nobody can tell whether or back what happens next . protectionists in the united states and europe , crying to slap massive punitive tariff on chinese goods , have been picked up flat-footed . but no one can know whether china ’s child step is the beginning of something far bigger , as china ’s authorities point out one day and deny the next . they want to maintain bathing through print coverage , but as long as it pushes their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists will see as somehow an impediment to the delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . whatever the final economic effects china has had on ’s first modest path toward floating its currency , one intended to admire its strategic frankness .
hollande is unlikely to stand less well with america than has been sarkozy , considered by many as france ’s most pro-us president . and here , obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will be to appear as a reliable , unsurprising partner . recently , one of his close political allies proclaimed that should the un security council approve military interventions in syria , france “ can envision ” ” participating in that effort . hollande , for his part , has backed a military intervention in libya in 2011 to rally against syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime .
hence the keynesian solution : using monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and loose fiscal policies ( expansionary government spending and reduced taxes ) in order to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice where deflation becomes possible . deflation -- the steady ongoing collapse of prices , -- gave firms and consumers powerful incentives to cut spending and liquidate cash . it reduced business and banks ' ability to service their debt , possibly triggering a chain of great bankruptcies that destroys confidence in the financial system , providing further incentives to hoard it . but if this is an issue that is resolved beyond fifty years ago , why is it haunting us politics now ? such powerful motivations for hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and falling , and rising , for a much longer time than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist have ever dared .
the un , with support from countries like sweden , and working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes the unicef , is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises is tested , which is the kind of system as never before . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; the millions have witnessed impassable brutality ; and millions are being threatened with exploitation , abuse , and worse . and , of the more than 50 million children living outside their own countries , or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , confronting new threats to their livelihoods and well-being . this is not rhetoric : it is reality .
overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . un secretary-general ban ki-moon next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing themselves to putting their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to achieve net-zero net-zero emissions by mid-century . to this end , a african country ’s coalition , endorsed by the united nations economic commission for africa and a new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path . partnerships with ngos and national finance ministers , relevant sustainable-finance institutions , and the private sector will step up the process . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to put the bar high , thereby placing pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions .
after world war ii , capitalism could be redesigned because it buttressed three necessary kinds of regulation : a social welfare that served as a principal stabilizer , at least in advanced countries ; keynesian tools to combat domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal , high-wage policy aimed at stimulating universal consumption , without which capitalism ’s genius – mass production – does not work . widespread fragility in societal relations – most important , but not only in employment – is slowly becoming intolerable to a growing segment of populations in many advanced countries , not only in europe . and there can be no stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries , so long as electorates reject its underpinnings . the rejection of the european union ’s european constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , by all accounts , more the rejection of unregulated globalization than was europe ’s rejection . but the realignment of the rich , advanced countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists like milton friedman , which began around 1970 , split all that .
in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors counseled policymakers to announce a target for inflation , because it “ communicates ” central bank ’s intentions , ” ” ” ” ” ” that would “ reduce uncertainty altogether . the announced rates should be substantially positive , they wrote , because if officials had tried to get it close to zero , any mistake might have resulted in deflation that “ might endanger the financial system , and precipitate economic contraction . ” that , in turn , might have created a sense of real risk , if need to do something about real risk worldwide . inflation targeting has other effects as well , which also appears set to coincide more with central bankers ’ minds . at the same time , in an age of online rumors and fake news , the world today can look a bit unmoored of history .
berkeley – with its ambitious , made in china 2025 strategy , china has made a clear commitment to ensuring global economic leadership in high-tech industries . and it has deployed a variety of methods , including weak intellectual-property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with china ’s trade partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment , to acquire such technologies from america ’s and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . this places it in direct competition with the united states – which is currently leading in these industries – in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both trade and military applications . with its investment in such dual-use technologies , china is seeking more than to compete commercially for america ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power .
already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have held their own . the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification and yugoslavia into disarray . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which , along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) , then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . but an america that is relatively less reliant on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and tends to be more economically resilient than other countries , would do better than most others in contracting the global economy . today , a trade war that is being damaged by every economy , not less .
the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy , contributing to a stabilizing european , us currency . it would enhance confidence in iran , allowing the us to increase existing inflows of inward foreign direct investment . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to financing from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need it in the future . most importantly , a fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting across europe . the esm is ireland ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) , and a return to the markets .
after studying this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that germany lacks the full grasp of the myriad issues needed to be considered . all organizations should be investing in ethics officers , or some kinds of review process involving people who are able to examine every consequence of a person sounding idea . in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a marketing gimmick but as the heart of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . it is a harder subject to resolution and doing so is impeded by both lobbying efforts and incomplete intelligence . there is no comprehensive way forward in europe ; indeed , much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards .
the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies go closer to the shahbag student protesters than to a hifazat a counter-protesters . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but it must navigate a hard road , because both points of view have significant public support . nevertheless , far too often , clichés become established , because they are real . the young people at shahbag are mainly urban , well-educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives its support largely from the rural poor .
even the staunchest defenders of the current global monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , yet none has been adopted broadly enough to challenge the current order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that way . the real bombshell , by contrast , was the sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not , at some later , but right now . now that it has dropped the gauntlet , governments should take advantage of the opportunities to advance a form of a digital currency that serves the public good .
before i became soviet leaders in 1985 , relations between the cold war superpowers struck rock bottom . reagan and i were able , at long last , to create a reservoir of constructive spirit through continuous outreach and face-to-face interaction . economic constraints , as well as the chernobyl catastrophe , helped spur us action . why was the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in june not well elicited a similar response today ? what appears to be sorely lacking today are leaders with the boldness and vision needed to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
all over europe , it is not just british prime minister tony blair , who is being accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charges in europe ’s current election campaign . it offers a moment to review why they are so enfeebled . august is the traditional month when parliaments are recess for summers . it offers a moment for you to study why they are so enfeebled .
first , a new set of outside disciplines is coming hand-in-hand with a specific , neoliberal economics models that remain untested , foreclosing development strategies that work in the past and others that might work in the future . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system far more secure . indeed , by drawing attention to inward structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency about short-term capital flows , amplifying rather than then reducing systemic risk . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system far more secure . so long as capital flows remain large relative to the levels held by national governments and are easily reversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles .
for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , one never operating with a person at the top , for whom , arguably , superior work , talents , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack . ” numerous news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women find enchanted with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their new roles ( and thus do not deserve them ) , inherited from male relatives or coouses ( and , in fact , keep the reins of power ) , or long do not . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that the woman ’s very governance has been weakened . and all of these clichés have been reproduced in barra ’s coverage according to gm . such clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also decrease in value to their companies .
few observers expected that china would transform itself suddenly into a full-fledged democracy , following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has , nonetheless , been disappointing to witness . dynasties come and go , but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding . state-owned enterprises remain favored , books are being burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in any domain of chinese life . how long this will last has any of them is anyone ’s guess .
nevertheless , one must wonder about a victorious motion , with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons and others unable to obtain permission to enter the country where they were elected , so that the new parliament can not function properly . more recently , the elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries brought groups to power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to pander to any of these political forces . in fact , all of this tells us just three things about democracy itself . first , elections rarely resolve fundamental issues .
social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by televised propagandists , is such a thing as telling lugovoi ’s achievement and outrage at the infamous campaigns unleashed against him by those who loathe russia can jangle within ordinary russians with no slightest dissonance . that is why lugovoi is bespoke for his autograph . to be sure , this should not be taken to mean the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement admit to the justice of the british accusation . but only one such “ patriot ” was accorded to the honors that act was permitted to fulfill . indeed , we confront the mystery of russia ’s thought that it has proved so irresolute to others , thereby excluding each analytical scalpel and about which our slavophiles and eurasians have written forever .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to another , it generates persistent inequalities . moreover , given that inequality largely starts at birth , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by encouraging the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities in one generation are not left behind to the next . · remove barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize downward impediments . · such investment will require additional domestic resources .
some , it should be emphasized , are being staged . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began . greece has slashed its spending by a greater sum relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii . italy has made crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . other reforms , particularly political reform , will be hotly contested .
gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption spending have averaged only 0.8 percentage points for the last five years , the most robust and protracted rate of slowing the pace of consumer demand growth of the post-world war ii era . two bubbles – real property and credit , against which america ’s families had borrowed freely , have long since burst . instead , they have cut back on spending . but the aftershocks linger : the household-debt loads were still running at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers did not put the bait out of their monetary and fiscal authorities .
while his motivation , at least , was may ’s desire for social justice , perón was , in effect bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and merit . with his splendid and outmoded wife – a “ woman of the people ” – at his counterpart , perón served as a confirmation of voters in 1946 that as president he would fundamentally transform the country . perón ’s government , nationalized the banks and railroads , raised minimum wages and improved living standards , cut the national debt ( for a while ) , revived the economy . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though moving toward autarky undermined growth , causing the country to lose its seat among the world ’s richest . perón ’s government , nationalized the banks and railroads , raised minimum wages and improved living standards , cut the national debt ( for a while at least ) , and revived the economy .
in the end , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg to the us dollar in 2002 . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . it is not hard to imagine the next us administration – whenever one appears about – perceiving the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound ununconvincing , because the economic case is weak where it is absent from extreme credibility problems . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial as soon as brazil recovers , because it will .
a strange conventional wisdom , advanced in the inflationary 1970s and the 1980s : that robust economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . here ’s one message from the markets worth pondering , even for non-investors : political confidence may come at the low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by the latest recession and dismal about the future ; but judging by the behavior of the years ahead , if not decades of crisis-ridden decades from 1973 to 1989 . part of that can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between share market prices and economic growth . prosperity , felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering the stock-market rout . while experts spent the past two years propounding this thesis quietly set the market back older , more common-sense rules : prosperity is good for profits and hence good for equities .
elsewhere , the nigerian federation of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has used its agenda over several years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance because of the country 's opening towards democracy . * sound economic analysis and behind closed papers are readily available to technocrats and others to study ; * sound economic analysis ; and behind closed papers readily available to technocrats and others to study ; * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available to technocrats and others to study ;
the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case , for instance ) . now , the imf acknowledges thailand down by about three percentage points . the currencies collapsed and the banking sector collapsed . the imf had mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) to indonesia , korea and thailand , to pay back foreign lenders attempting to withdraw their funds . its medicine was done very little to save the economy .
election-year tactics aside , american voters are right , and they are . so , too , expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the us in the months ahead . the obama administration knows the iron law of american foreign policy , “ it ’s all the more surprising , given the economy , stupid ” – just as anyone else . obama has done far better on us foreign policy than domestic policies , all the more surprising , given the weak hand it has been dealt : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at diversion ; it also sends the message that domestic-policy impasse is not its fault .
at the same time , europeans will see the dismantling of their welfare states and social-welfare systems ; a cherished “ european model ” ” of pensions , health-care provision , and the risk of unemployment replacing the scorned and widely feared “ american model . ” at the same time , europeans will see the dismantling of their own welfare states and social-welfare systems ; a cherished “ european model ” ” of pensions , health-care , and the risks of unemployment being replaced by the scorned – and widely feared by the american model . this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave the rigors of america ’s ’s less cosseted social-welfare states , but because it is the only way that european governments can stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is european ’s shrinkage .
the trouble , then , is this : in most cases . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short term to military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely ready require degrees of international solidarity that is produced only under extraordinary circumstances . and they watch with gaidar at how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of the disunity . they feel reaffirmed in their conviction that for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of doing business . should the rogue state be allowed to get its way off to its provocations ?
london , a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as europe ’s gravest threat to recovery . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and genuinely apparently thinking that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as examples of robust , “ competitive ” economies . but it is true that economic growth , even in a traditionally export-led economy , has been fueled by productivity growth rather than by the ability to capture an increasing share of global markets . while imports obviously have to export domestically , the focus on trade competitiveness attracts attention from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
and the more important battery cells reach the global value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be . yet europe could still develop battery production by recycling old electronic devices , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits . china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including reserves of its own cobalt , an essential raw materials in its battery production . as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells , the united states for 15 % ( at tesla , a “ gigafactory ” in nevada ) and europe by just 4 % . this , in turn , would amount to a momentous shift .
but breakthrough tech companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-funded education systems . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking , particularly their fiscal thinking – put the people first . and while there is a growing “ “ tech ” business for a good ” sector in europe , it will succeed only if it promotes up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays . at the same time , governments need to let bureaucratic red tape take on more risk entrepreneurs . governments that make it their central objective in order to maximize human well-being end up encouraging not only higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics .
all countries will have to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burdens alone . in developing countries , pro-trade voices might help turn the debate toward global integration opportunities , rather than emphasizing exceptions . for example , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment effectively block an agreement to open up new markets for services and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of employment . pro-trade forces may speak out in the political process as a way . the initiative will have to come from the top if it is to be made within every country for more open markets to help make it available to those facing adjustment .
inter-korean dialogues in iran and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states do not necessarily translate into loss of iranian influence . likewise , iran ’s shia-led support for iraq has been partly intended to preempt competition from regional opponents . but iranian critics of intervention appear to believe that there is a middle way . iran , for its part , already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader policy reconsideration is needed in order to quell the is the threat , hence be it . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but worry is growing if regional overreach could trigger a long list of lethal consequences .
the impact of the lessons learned in india is all the more striking . in october 2013 , residents of odisha state alerted early to the advent of a cyclone phailin . by the time that storm made landfall , many people had already evacuated . in houston , the authorities were ready for harvey in part due to lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which busted new orleans in 2005 . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard .
if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should barcelona have the freedom to leave in catalonia ? for catalan separatists , this means that they now confront what the greek political scientist hans morgenthau termed the a-b-c paradox ” to defeat nationalism . given that the status quo is inherently unstable and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s ’s oppressors to prevent this from taking hold ? yet , elsewhere , this , too , seems unlikely in the near term .
even that futile scenario may prove optimistic , because it assumes that talks get off the ground , an impossible feat if israel continues its illegitimate construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not merely unjust ; they amount to violations of united nations security council resolution $ 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution has demanded that israel immediately and fully abdicate all settlement activities in occupied palestinian territories , including eastern october ” – operations that amount to a “ flagrant violation under international law . ” possible agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by either side , at least for the two sides , the concessions that leaders on either side will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who has been tasked with settling the conflict and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on matters , jason greenblatt , seems to understand this .
the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) , which xi has christened rather than “ a century ” project , is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to reinforce commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” in doing so , though china does not openly call into question the foundations of the liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are unprepared to gamble at the foundations of its own domestic legitimacy : economic growth . a remarkable communiqué from world leaders involved at the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promoting “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , gender equality , ” and empowering women .
the question , then , is whether the newcomers , as early as next month , succeed in adopting the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . part ii of an stalled paper , the eu charter of fundamental rights , can be put to rest . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s own democratic deficit will widen , without any clearly defined fundamental rights . the best way forward , then , is for nato to focus on essentials . part iii of a blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of current eu treaties , which – because such treaties will remain in force , regardless of whether some form of a new documentary – can decoupled itself from the rest .
but , for europe , a more profound reason exists : the transatlantic alliance is more necessary today than ever before , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . in the long run , this basically amounts to an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens itself up across the borders of a nation and a culture that values will govern the twenty-first century ? this is as true of the nations of europe , and it is not . forget , once again , that short-term electoral politics does there , or is here here .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have been already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation of military escalation now . likewise , just a few months ago , two police vice minister , transportation secretary , and ex-director of state-owned petroleum corporation petroleum corporation , all were brought to court on charges of selling state assets to private companies at the loss of commercial life .
a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be bad . a minority coalition comprising the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration and climate policies that would be pointless otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . the fdp , for its part , would like to participate in such a government for precisely that reason . it would then hold merkel with merkel ’s red-green affinity . and merkel herself would attempt to avoid a populist coalition with the fdp in order to prevent it from becoming addicted to it .
one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year were using its loan cards to buy some $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some european and branded goods are indeed manufactured in china ) . china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp at just $ 14,000 , some one fourth of that in the united states . though beijing and shanghai remain relatively prosperous , much poverty remains rampant . chinese corporations are burdened by high levels of debt , even though a few officials have stressed that they have little to worry about . revealing the world ’s scope for achieving the un ’s five-year plan to eradicate poverty by 2020 – which requires reducing the number of poor people by 55 million – the poverty line is defined as just $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar a day .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historic record of failed one-party regimes might actually benefit from reading leon trotsky , who knows something about revolutions . a different explanation is fear of contemplating an unknown . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . dictatorships are deemed indestructible before falling ; trotsky reminds us ; but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are overthrown . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – state failure and civil chaos – could be far worse than the status quo .
after moving on to manufacture car audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft 's ceo , has begun hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high costs of a specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machine ( such as those made by ge , philippine , philippine , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new business was born , the company at least had a new venture . neusoft 's devices start as a low-cost competitor to an oracle company . neusoft devices look like little personal computers with sensors attached . liu realized that neusoft can link standard intel chips as well as its own imaging software to a wide variety of digital sensors .
princeton – by this time now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the eurozone , but throughout all of europe . within germany , there have been endless debates about german identity – what one historian has called a continual dispute about what being german might actually mean . but , on foreign-policy terms , postwar west germany – and , later , reunified germany – was totally predictable : never toward the west ; always to more europeans . now the “ berlin republic ” is very secure about its own identity , and seemingly at the seas in its dealings with the world . to be sure , there are structural reasons for this change .
as he put it , “ we ought to have the courage to take on risks when there are thoughtful risks … . we need to pardon the potential benefits of continued risk-taking . ” while only some 49 % of manufactures startups and 37 % of informal-startups now survive for four or more years , those that do have succeeded in producing a breakthrough innovations . tom watson , unilever jr. , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , is well known for having promoted brilliant blunders . as he put it , “ we ought to have the courage to take risks when there are thoughtful risks … . we have to forgo mistakes that have been made because someone who made an effort to act aggressively in a company ’s interest . ”
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . the biggest threat comes from netanyahu . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but , of course , did not interfere in trump ’s behalf ) , because they shared the desire to improve the bilateral relationship . now , more than ever before , putin needs american friendship . though he has been reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval ratings have plummeted from around 45 % to less than 45 % . popular discontent in russia has also festered the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes increases in the retirement age .
in south korea , the imf urged selling country banks to american investors , even though koreans managed their own economy impressively for four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and no systemic scandals that had marked america ’s financial markets with so much overleveraged . in its rush to have westerners buying the banks , the imf forgotten one detail : ensuring that south koreans can recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . to be sure , wall street ( whose interests america ’s treasury represents ) profits from equity market liberalization : they make money as capital flows out , because it flows out , and in a restructuring that occurs at the ensuing havoc . in some cases , american firms did buy the banks , held on them until korea recovered and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . whether america ’s investors had bigger banking expertise in emerging markets can be debatable ; that it has had more expertise in tax avoidance .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , perished . of all the philosophers i have known since i started studying the topic more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest of a genius . getting into the philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he was already thinking about every response i could make to his arguments , considered a few possible replies , viewed a few possible replies , and knew the objections to every reply as the best counters to these objections . parfit was not a household name at all . just a year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy web site , parfit voted the foremost living anglophone philosopher .
on paper , a hospital appears well staffed and suitably well-endowed , but on my rounds there , i find halls and wards deserted and barren . few therapeutic and diagnostic possibilities have at their disposal been put forward , because they were n’t familiar . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures and a stigma attached to a illness that is often sexually transmitted . even an essential test like a cat scan require transportation to another regional hospital .
comparing the outcomes of these twin simulations suggest that large export inflows of palestinian labor to israel reduces the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by placing an extra downward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . but the levels of median incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under the latter strategy than in how israeli labor markets are gradually reopened for a palestinian job . certainly , what trade policies might boost us exports of goods rather than labor ? this confirms the enormous short-term welfare cost to the palestinian community of restricting the palestinian workforce ’s access to israeli labor market . such simulations also suggest that continued reliance on exports of labor outcomes in the lower growth potential of the palestinian economy than on a development strategy based on export goods .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . addis ababa , when zimbabwe brought down president robert mugabe in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many had hoped that the economic decline he had overseen would quickly be reversed . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the remedy for what travails zimbabwe has ?
clearly , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing the architect whose title had done such dark historical connotations . china believes that it found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev had done , as a means of “ selling ” their models to a global audience . but , in that case , as the son borrows core elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is he not willingly reflected those sins ? speer ’s name itself was probably no matter what the officials chose him . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in the 1980 ’s , and now the chinese – had keen to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world of superiority .
incidentally , macron can proudly proclaim as a french patriot because france surrendered to world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . these are examples of what the late philosopher jürgen habermas ’s philosopher jürgen habermas has dubbed “ constitutional patriotism ” ( some others have denounced it as civic patriotism ) . the path to tiananmen square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or military advantage , but because it stands for noble and universal values . it is this philosophical position that has practical implications . under the recent dutch election , liberals might dispute migrants ’ rights because respect and tolerance are the traditional dutch values of which any dutch patriot can be muslim .
in april , with the icc determining whether to resume its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan , including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration cut off a courteous visa given to the us supreme court ’s chief prosecutor . conduct such investigations effectively and without delay would reestablish the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . in order to succeed , the icc will need to overcome forceful opposition , moving not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . as long as the icc meets the role it was shaped , it can neither bow to such pressure nor allow its deficient performance to resume . for the eu , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , gbagbo ’s attorney , fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as an motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the challenge .
new york – capital-account regulations have been gaining ground at the heart of two years of global financial debates . the reasons are manifold : because the world has witnessed a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growing advanced-country advanced countries maintain at extremely low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast emerging economies unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the great recession . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of the fiscally strong countries ’ expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues a paramount global currency . emerging economies ’ fear that this flood of capital drives their currencies into floating their exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account and asset bubbles , that past experience has taught them a sure recipe for future crises . that asymmetry spurred enormous capital inflows , from formerly former to the latter , that are likely to continue .
moore ’s own mortality figures seem to be on high sides , but there is little doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , he causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 pre-school children each year , about half of whom die within the next 12 months . missing from vitamin a is also a major factor in high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth . missing from vitamin a deficiency is also major factors of high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , along with other organizations opposed to using genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has been campaigning against the emergence of a beta carotene , which is converted in a human body into vitamin a. a.
so what lessons does history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? back in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some special set of asset positions in financial markets was mirrored by excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated excess supply by workers in labor markets . if you relieved excess demand for financial asset prices , you also cured an excess supply of goods and services ( a shortcoming of aggregate demand ) and an excess supply of labor ( via mass unemployment ) . again , the implication of that came as clear .
it represents a gap seen in areas as varied as health care , education and combating climate change . similarly , bec pledged to boost others ’ jobs by getting “ a flexible approach front , ” providing seeds , angel , and series investment , with the expectation that once these investments are de-risking , traditional commercial capital is investing in later stages . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems on their own . no single actor – be it a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of individual investors – can fix today ’s really big problems on their own . that is why the chan zuckerberg initiative was designed for maximization , allowing funding to be channeled to non-profits , channeled into private investment , or used to help influence policy debates .
the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world fairer and more just place where one ’s economic destiny depends not so much on where those who happen to have been born . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks he can do something about it . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system that expands american dominance . but a more cynical view pervades populist reasoning , namely that in its excessive adherence to globalism , america has been soaking up the seeds of its own political and economic ruin . american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unheartened by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately impoverished people in china and india into the global middle class .
one approach would enhance nuclear deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces , as well as reintroducing the south ’s tactical nuclear weapons . but , under such a scenario , north korea could hold onto power relations hostage to such outsize demands as the withdrawal of american forces from the region and in the area of economic and energy aid in order to prop up the regime . one approach would enhance mutual deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces and deploying tactical nuclear weapons in the south . however , a more conventional power would add little to the capacity force already on earth and bring nuclear arms to south korea would only make both sides more anxious ( and offshore american naval nuclear forces have already pack a sufficient punch to boost their deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the presumption that it can enhance communication , thereby fortifying the nuclear threat .
thus , the populist backlash in latin america – brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took a left-wing mold . the story is similar in the major two exceptions to a right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in spain , most of these immigrants , until recently , came from culturally similar latin american countries . in both countries , the far right lacked a breeding ground it had elsewhere . in greece , the main political fault lines have been the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund .
this was coupled with critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . during the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for ceasing the status of pariah . british and american negotiators jointly met with their libyan counterparts to resolve the case of the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . during the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for cessation of pariah status .
botswana ’s impossible annual per capita income growth of roughly 13 % in the last decade was accompanied by a drop from almost six children per woman to less than four . the math is simple : much of the people means ( on average ) everyone get less of it . why is rapid population growth wrong for a country ’s standard of living ? a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital but also of human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as its quantity moves , because poor families with many children are unable to make sufficient contributions to every child ’s education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
but it does mean an understanding that even a democracy has many rules , ideally rules that a majority has elected but tend not to be directly elected ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives , who can argue and negotiate in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who elected . like it or not , these groups can not do that as a adolescent brigade ; they need picking up the leaders who can speak for them and negotiate for them . that may sound somewhat too much like the old system , but it need not be . it does not mean that these activists should abandon the causes for which they are fighting . what the modernizers need is a cohesive force , and most likely a political party – rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of crowds to govern the country .
in fact , in many oecd countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care - and society-wide assistance workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing will account for a comparable share of potential work gains for male students ) . rising incomes ; growing health-care demand , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology creates new job opportunities . considering the secular and occupational distribution of these opportunities , it might be slightly better for women to marry them . in fact , in many arab countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care - and social-assistance workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of all women ’s future job opportunities ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of men ’s potential job gains ) . this innumerable advantage for women reflects the robust growth that is looming in sectors such as health care , where women are well represented .
directly across the aisle from me , there was putin , sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich , and his equally famous wife , the opera diva galina vishnevskaya . it was this past year , ’s new year in ’s eve 2003 , during a concert for the newly opened home of music at the newly opened home in moscow . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store , thrilled at each other with such cultural icons , former exiles no less . i myself is given over by putin ’s grasp of culture , and yet we never know what works . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s adoration ( and proximity to power ) .
as a result , in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and a buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government ’s loosened monetary and fiscal policies start early in november 1997 . but , at the same time , gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . not until 1998 , when cpi inflation began to drop , producer prices were already in decline for eight months , and remained negative for a total of 51 months , with cpi growth starting to recover after just 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government should have switched to loosening earlier and more forcefully . but gdp growth soon began to deteriorate at its fastest rate .
the views of piketty and blanchard can indeed be reconciled , for they talk about different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on rates on low-risk government bonds , piketty worries about a return on very risky capital investments . so , too , has we now moved from piketty ’s r > g to blanchard ’s r - the world ’s r , to blanchard , world of r &g ? if so , can their views be reconciled ? the answer is no , and yes .
by contrast , compared to their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital recently – and much of it was creative accounting , rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder capital . perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring would have led to a financial meltdown has always been minimal and quiescent markets were supposed to be bailed out . but , again , this is precisely why all of the fuss so far ? banks have not failed , nor is signs of falling dominos . but that is not , because the banks prepared themselves by raising more capital .
moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short-lived duration of joblessness does not force workers to sell to their homes , or even to cars . in the scandinavian countries , unlike , say , germany and the us , government , rather than individual companies , blame most of their social benefits . the system protects not only the unemployed , who are able to continue paying their mortgages and interest , but also indirectly , the banks , because their borrowing to households is repaid even in times of recession . this way , economically irrational lock-in effects whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs is avoided . and , rather than solving all kinds of economically created private-sector problems , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
but having suffered currency - and capital-account crises with more openness , many emerging-market economies still feel left compelled to accumulate vast reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their ex-productive capacity has disappeared . while financial globalization has not enhanced growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . meanwhile , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . public investment and basic social protection can help to turn this around , by creating millions of jobs .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have been already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation of military escalation now . one aspect of this supposedly moral and cultural decline concerns famines : “ to attack the family ’s institution , respect it with contempt , or doubts its significant role , to the pope and the grand imam state , “ is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that a family is the “ essential nucleus of society , ” and humans , ” and “ is vital in bringing their children up , to educate them , to train them , and to provide for them with a solid moral high and domestic security voice .
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is commonly recognized that the world ’s young people are often left behind . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . indeed , unless the youth socioeconomic and political engagement addressed , achieving many in the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will remain impossible . and they frequently confront inadequate economic opportunities , and may be socially or politically excluded as well .
while trade has increased , investment lags , and russia ranks only one-tenth among china ’s export markets . moreover , russia ’s economic decline has intensified its worries over its rise in china . as the imf recently noted , russia worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than china has been on russia . no country took more land from china in the nineteenth century than russia did , and the current demography in the far east – where russia number six million and the population on the chinese side of the border is up roughly 120 million – adds to anxiety in moscow . according to fabyujun of fudan yujun university , “ the most important relationship for the us is america .
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known j-wolf and lamb , wolf easily could have eaten the lamb with no word , but prefers to set up his “ subterfuge . ” martin then argues that at least last year , a lamb has named him a bad names ( but the lamb was just six months old ) . martin wolf then ganarls that if it were not the lamb , he was his father ; after the result , he immediately pushes into action . martin wolf then ganarls that , if it is not the lamb , he was his father ; after the fact , he has moved urgently in action . first , he scolds the lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( even though wolff was upstream ) .
arlington , virginia – the us election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to military-laden , minority-bullying , media-bashing , firebrand promising to smash a corrupt establishment . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
she then quickly proceeded to give the long celebratory talk about america ’s heroism of america ’s heroism “ struggle for liberty ” abroad . that agenda might seem selfish , although understandable from a billionaire perspective . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the superfluous super-rich and abolishing government subsidies , like social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . it seemed curiously , and much of the deceptive , shift : from king hagel to brilliant civil-rights lawsuits on palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . but then there was something curious about an entire event , just as there is something strange about the tea party movement itself .
though the extent of their religious commitment varies , they share a powerful , emotional attachment to the faith provides him with considerable political leverage . the beginning of his papacy finds that populist governments in a vulnerable situation hit hard by chávez on the eve of his recent demise . moreover , they govern the countries in which catholics suffered the overwhelming majority . all obviously have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss out on chávez ’s protection in his global influence , just as his grants do . in particular , latin america will no doubt be one of francis ’s priorities .
but obama can not do it alone – and , so far , neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting with his moral compass . not even revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from america ’s possibility surveillance have stirred american americans to demand a new approach . the us must take the lead in the world , either through deed and example . the us should take the lead in the world , through deed and , say , by us congress . the answer to the second major question shaping the world – whether china recovers its own economic momentum at the same time , appears to be “ no , ” ” ” at least in the short run with most experts agreeing that china ’s exports – and investment-led growth model have all but exhausted its potential .
genotyping can now be accomplished by 20 minutes , and will get even faster . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies , and it has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . in addition , someday , we will know – through sequencing the entire genome – about rarer genomic disturbances , which are corroborated by treatment responses or spillover effects . to fill the prescription for a drug with a well-known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can obtain prompt genotyping to determine the right dose , a drug , or predilection for solemn spillover . nevertheless , there has been substantive and remarkable progress , all over the past few years .
from the banks ’ perspective , the clearest lesson was the need for a strong national government to incur the potential cost of rescue . the us is big enough to run behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup . the us is large enough to run behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . it no longer makes them subject more favorable to the most favorable regulatory regime , but to which the state has deepest pockets .
so far , such searches are far from complete . we have so far failed to deliver comparable analyses to the destiny of the caribbean and the indian ocean islands following our first human contact , but the large numbers of extinctions occurred there , too . linneaus invented the modern naming process of naming species in mid-1700 ’s , even though naming naming did not get under way until the post-napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 rises as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal , for instance , where bones survives . early european exploration has probably continued this fast-moving pace of extinction .
the plight of the million refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden for the countries across the region and europe . iran ’s nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of iranian power and only for a limited duration . and europe is already confronting a number of significant challenges , including russian aggression toward ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , as well as low rates of economic growth . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all deal with civil and proxy wars across the region . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose their territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come .
these movements created the space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . deadly wildfires have taken livelihoods and devastated billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves stricken north african , europe , japan , india , pakistan , australia and argentina , and so forth . droughts struck across kenya and somalia ; as well as afghanistan and south africa were suffering major water shortages .
a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america 's interest , and a strong partnership with the u.s. will be vitally important for africa in its continued growth and development . this is at the beginning of an important dialogue with the us . the stakes for both africa and the us are high in each of both . the decisions we make now are likely to have implications for generations to come . we owe it to our descendants , and to the silicon savannah entrepreneurs already lead the charge , to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with both the concepts and realities of strategic power . such was clearly the case for france , under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth century , and just as is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . indeed , india is visibly positioned in another category . in economic terms , india ’s confidence has somehow been boosted by the way the western world now looks with a mixture of reverence and greed : “ what kind of deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be any country ’s largest ? ” still , to comprehend india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison comes from america in the 1920 ’s .
in the us and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” about economic policy believe that there are equality of opportunity for all children , and that a free-market economy in their countries is fair . the reverse holds true for those who call themselves “ liberal . ” such people favor government interference on the grounds that they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and may even generate more inequality of all . an even more striking pattern is that americans are over-optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual mobility is low , including southeastern states of georgia , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina . views about social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions .
once upon a time , there was many relatively small department-store chains and other retailers spread throughout america , along with outlets in a few towns . those headquarters brought incomes into their town by providing back-office departments to their shops of shops . but the online consolidation , driven in part by walmart and amazon , dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . the grocer , a coffee shop and a barber walk from business , and everybody leave , it turns the location of a ghost town . the disruption can be caused not just by an industrial closure .
the republican party ’s proposed tax cuts would create an additional $ 2 trillion of revenue shortfall over the next decade , making it impossible to plug that hole in their health-care reform plan or the $ 1.2 trillion that might be expected of a bat . now , the republican party must make a choice between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the national debt ) and pursuing much more modest reform . the early scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in government debt . the bat does not have enough support even among republicans and would violate world trade organization rules .
when a country saves more but investment remains essentially unchanged , it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . its net export position and its current-account balance improves . part of the analytical attractiveness of the national income account is that they add up . but that has not happened in this case , either . such resilience will be tested over a longer run , though because of fiscal and external imbalances that were unaffected by the data revision .
first , when it comes to climate change , what matters is that you look like something you do . countries that manage it can get away with data massaging . countries have made a grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all of their promises collectively add up to less than 1 % of what ’s required . new analysis shows that just 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their commitments , in most instances , because they have promised very little . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a good example of this .
that strategy faltered , in part owing to us intransigence under president george w. bush and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the american had never signed ) . the eu , the copenhagen accord , merely asked countries for voluntary pledges to cut their co2 emissions by special sums . as a result , the vast areas of our planet , currently home to a billion people , could become unlivable . earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories sought to reach legally binding agreements to reduce emissions , at least for the industrialized countries that have generated most of their greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . thai permafrost permafrost releases vast amounts of methane , a tiny fraction of methane .
along the same lines , during russia ’s prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he has called for establishing a mechanism for european preemptive diplomacy and mandatory consultations in the face of threats to any state ’s own security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . of course , political leaders bear in blame for filing these and other “ european ” ideas in archives . but the blame must also be shared with europe ’s entire political class , civil-society institutions , and the news media . though i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is extremely difficult to be pessimistic about 2014 about its future .
and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe of the biggest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria runs when it comes to green buildings . but , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked to lead energy talks at a un summit , has integrated huge numbers of wind power into its electricity grid . when it comes to tackling the problem , europe is ahead of the curve . sweden , running an industrial workstream with india , has created the world ’s first-ever fossil-fuel-free power plant .
because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are drawn to various kinds of people , and so differentiate these differences could damage a country from those that do not . for example , prejudice has tended to decline as participation increases . tolerance for anyone ’s religion is the price paid to one ’s tolerance . one result of an agreement is paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity ” with difference . it has been in no one ’s interest to dredge this live-and-let-live pragmatism for a very long time .
that is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator , mark malloch brown , have asked us at the head of a new commission on the private sector and development , we have agreed . based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which opened itself up to foreign investment and trade , and in canada -- leading the way in encouraging the donor community and a major source of private investment in the developing world , we are convinced that many such challenges can identify , isolated , and fixed . entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit tiniest cities in the poorest country on market-day terms , and you will see the private sector in action . that keeps small businesses in poorer nations and regions from reaching their full potential . if small firms could expand beyond village square , they could drive their countries ' growth better off than any single aid agency .
and yet , even though it does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . so far , he has proven highly effective at keeping the bromance alive , meeting the forthcoming summit on track . regardless of when the upcoming summit ends , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime . there is no guarantee that it will not repeat that a repeat gambit . furthermore , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump indicate that he has a fine fix on the president ’s regional psyche .
in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . all of this created emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly to young people , raise the specter of a “ brain drain . ” at the same time , it has turned up heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled down over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protests ) . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state fails to deliver basic safety : in july 2018 , an olympic ice-skating mediterranean , denis 10 , was assassinated in broad terms at the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to prevent its car mirrors stolen .
the challenge of job creation for the saudis might seem like an riches problem . but whenever the kingdom tried to curtail public-sector hiring , the unemployment rate soared . some would argue that every kingdom needs to do so in order to substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions . but simple substitution wo n’t do . under the current incentives system , the authorities plan to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will , in fact , destroy the jobs occupied by the saudis .
in the us , the rationale for not using euros or the yen alongside dollars is obvious : doing so would be pointless , making the us economy far less efficient . the entire point of money , then , is that it permits parties to transact without having to barter . but , so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency might substitute for fiat money . in the us , the reason that you do n’t use euros or yen alongside dollars is obvious : doing so would make the economy far less efficient . the idea that a hundred cryptocurrencies could operate viably together wo n’t merely contradict the very concept of money ; it is totally idiotic .
minimizing the fallout will require both parties recognizing that in an interconnected world , efforts to consolidate their own positions become self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism . a cool war threatens to undermine such efforts , because facing america at the negotiating table demands that china bolster its own position above all else . this means ensuring that disruptions caused by american short-termism fail to present a longer-term , systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dried up than the cold war had been . the trade war has thrown that lesson to sharp relief .
to accelerate the shift toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply across all countries ; involve a shared and consistent system-wide monitoring , reporting , and verification ; and provide strong , globally efficient economic incentives . our price-and-rebate mechanism is underpinned by the “ bonus/malus ” regime in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed , or awarded bonus payments , depending on a vehicle for co2 emissions . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that , as part of the copenhagen consensus , international cooperation might allow for rapid reduction of all greenhouse gases . they also emphasize the knock-on benefits that take quick action on climate change could have , including reducing local pollution , more energy , and food insecurity , and making more innovation more efficient . in our own system , a country exceeding the global per capita emissions average would pay a specified amount on every ton of co2 ( or the equivalent ) above a set threshold .
as recently as three months ago , i argued that all but a tiny , untrammeled fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending in a downturn , and i was right . i was also right to say that all but a tiny , untrammeled fringe of economists disapprove of central-bank guarantees for system stability in order to avoid the risk of a meltdown of a payg system from becoming a first-order consideration boosting money ’s demand to unnatural levels . thus , expansionary monetary policy through standard market-friendly operations by a central bank is the first item on what to do in an all-important financial crisis . when there is no excess demand for cash , there will be no excess supply of the bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital . three months ago , i argued that all but a tiny , untrammeled fringe of economists approve expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant into a downturn , and i was right .
in fact , none other than george kennan , america ’s originator of the cold war containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on just these grounds . the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . for starters , it is built on asserting both the claims of at the height of the berlin wall and of the soviet union ’s disintegration and that of the soviet union , the west has promised that nato enlargement would not be possible at all . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the wall ’s demise , has accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead harassing russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s weakening ” referendum on asserting “ monopoly leadership and global domination , ” ” ” ” including through nato enlargement . on paper , there are obvious limits to this theory .
america ’s market shares of global equity valuations have ever been the highest it has ever been , a remarkable statistic in view of america ’s declining american share of global economic activity . the international monetary fund , too , got on the act . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive image of global growth , the imf , without doubt , is still aware of the panglossian view that it was offered up in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to a sudden tightening of financial-market conditions , ” and that “ equity valuations ” appear outsize in some markets . here , “ some ” is the imf code for the united states . with so much at stake , how , exactly , should the us view all of these warnings ?
given that the us dollar was trading at around $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar is indeed around 6 % weaker than it otherwise would have been . that interest rate is the best way to get comparisons is a matter of debate , because it is the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to employ the often-government bond differential adjusted for inflation expectations . i have also developed what i have called a adjusted gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” ” rate on the ongoing economic cycle , by means of factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the rest of the eurozone . as a result , a adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as on june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . now , of course , 6 % is not a particularly large difference , and this finding may entail nothing at all .
the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks hastened loan repayments , hoping to get their money back . the banks defaulted on their loans , and lenders took big “ haircuts ” ( reducing principal value ) . the kazakh government , which had been scrambling to prop up its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , surrendered and opted to pull the plug . but , – and herein the point – with its debts scripted capital , the banking system is now being recapitalized and able to stimulate economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh start produced an impressive turnaround .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we are reaching just 8 % of the world ’s 760,000 children . just $ 230 per year per person is available for basic needs like water , food , and shelter , with less than $ 10 per child going toward education . but , most important , this is education at its moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holding a book up an insurgent high gun in pakistan , with adolescent mothers exiled in south sudan in neighboring uganda making the education of their top-to-children , and when lights see from space might include child clusters huddled by candlelight as they try to read and study , we know that education is a moment . this year must be an education of the time , a window of opportunity opened by around the un sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , including a reduction in maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to questions of gender equality .
cambridge – over the past two decades , the world has grown used to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east . and secretary of state james baker has used this to advance the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . it is time for america ’s recognition that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , de-escalation of the iranian nuclear dispute , turn north korea into behavior , or halt the syrian civil war on its own soil . president jimmy carter used it to reach out to the 1978 camp david accords , establishing mutual diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . unless the us can provide that today , america must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution .
if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves in the same way that they use the humanitarian values they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . by appeasing the terrorists in this way , the world 's most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but around the world . kosovo is a far lesser country than afghanistan . so , before a anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy it , it should eliminate terror in a place in which the un itself rules . if the world can not eliminate terrorist groups from politics in kosovo , what hope does this hold against terrorism elsewhere ?
if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior is so complicated , could it be any less so with humans ? the view that an individual gene might account for a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself . soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ drafts , ” and “ criminality ” might all be pinned to individual genes . as time passed and scientific know-how accumulated – much of it from the fruit fly , the true complexity of the relationship between genes and traits becomes plain . whether describing genes for the colors of flowers in pea plant , or the shape of the fruit fly ’s wings , geneticists in the early part of the last century believed that every gene had governed one unique characteristic .
for centuries , military strategists have known that there are , and can be , no definitive science of war . like boxing and poker , such is soft , restrained , private form of warfare . and , after all , one can not have a definitive , utopian society without having a ultimate , scientific theory of human conduct alongside some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the entire thing . the problem is that , regardless of how “ scientifically ” such new beliefs have been formulated , they remain false . between them , capitalism constitutes a struggle among individual people over controlling the scarce resource .
paris – earlier this week , following days of tense talks , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its european creditors that included an immediate reform package and a four-month extension of its financing assistance program . in any negotiation , a key variable influence on the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each individual . from greece ’s perspective , abandoning the euro would be hugely disruptive , which explains why very little support exists in poland . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , reaching a compromise does not rule out the need for more tough negotiations on a new program of financial-assistance that should be introduced by the end of june . in that case , the issue is greece ’s exit costs ( a “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media across france , with considerable speculation about the various players ’ stance , particularly the greek and german governments .
consider kazakhstan , where five million people have cast ballots in september for their lower house of parliament . indeed , cnn announced that it “ neither equitable nor free . ” elections in countries that have been strangers to democracy are never fairly positive , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as a likely election in iraq . but electoral flaws are not always the entire picture , either . in fact , western media have judged the election to be a failure .
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads and bridges , ports and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a handful of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in efforts to provide such public goods . satisfying demands for such goods makes growth itself a source of growth . but , too , a robust frontier , generating tremendous complementary activity , as trade increases between related areas and myriad businesses , restaurants and hotels spring up en along the way . just as india distanced itself from the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments grasped the imperative of economic growth so much that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) contested the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining ” raj .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , while its economic structure was unfit for new challenges , owing both to rigid size and their specialization in traditional sectors , together with low educational levels and r & d. still , berlusconi ’s government survived next to nothing in addressing these shortcomings , despite being originally the first-past-the-post government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , italy could have pursued coherent supply-side reforms even at the expense of some of its early unpopularity . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give the right incentives to restructuring , while privatization came to a halt . quite a few reforms were fleshed out : timid pension interventions and a further increase in labor-market flexibility .
despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish at the aids epidemic , something spectacular is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . consider what is happening on several floors of the one high rise office building , accra , ghana ’s capital . africans speak english , type at least 50 words a minute on a computer , take on paper data supplied by american medical insurers via satellite via e-form satellite into e-form , luring it into new digital forms and ships back to the american public . if not fairly representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of a high-tech industry nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . some 1,500 africans conduct american health-insurance claims – working across the clock , at three shifts .
the objective of this effort has always been to avoid a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliance , and hegemonic head butting . a westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested on the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european nation-states . yet the westphalian system was torn between the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both of which were in fact european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , the europeans , even the victorious european allies , effectively lost their sovereignty .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its banking stress tests . because many banks hold large volumes of eurozone sovereign debt , the outcomes will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a treasuries regulator will be badly tarnished . one hopes that the ecb will somehow be forthright . if it becomes more forthright about the risks , there is the chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging the loopholes and would require assistance from the north .
researchers should use fully representative test clusters while looking after rigorous privacy and regulatory protocols . they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled mental-health-care technologies . they could also fund competitions between socially conscious tech entrepreneurs to spur deeper innovations in this area . to be sure , at the latest , such initiatives cost the money themselves . venture capital firms now spend an estimated $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development , with support from venture capital companies accounting for more than $ 100 billion .
consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth laboratory , which i founded in 2006 , following two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has been operating in more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respect , the laboratory looks a bit like pedagogical and research centers . yet , a teaching-hospital model might actually be effective in public policy as well . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving the “ patients , ” ” ” ” ” or on governments in our case .
any sensible international trading regime has to start from the recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to curtail political space countries have to design their own economic and social models . the fledgling textile mills of new england found desperate for technologies and did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british artisans . and the u.s. had as much about british industrialists ’ trade secrecy the way china today has for america ’s intellectual-property rights . as one american enterprise historian put it , the american “ made pirates ” were pirates , too . the u.s. had patent laws , but it was only the us and its allies that was protected .
but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political-global power will begin to take shape , and this will mark the beginnings of a new international system . yes , one may debate : the " third way " or the next , or the three and a half way , but these are basically marginal debates . a second great change of change , ie , the end of global ideological dividing – also raises hard , possibly bigger issues . there exists today a basic , even on the occasion of ritualistic , consensus on the notion that democratic and free human rights are the points of leaving for a political organization with some form of free market with varying degrees of social responsibility , based on private business as the foundations of economic activity . making all of these changes , we will find it hard to see that way .
it would offer returns close to those yielded through equity investment , but , with some of the risk offsetting its longstanding nature . risk would be mitigated further , via the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions . developing bhe would require a new platform of private-sector investment , structured to provide bespoke returns for its various participants . public contributions , likely backstopped by multilateral lenders , would provide projects worth something close to sovereign risk profiles . finally , the regulated nature of cash flows would allow for better , pre-defined returns structures than the traditional private-equity can offer .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even holding modest amounts of their currencies under their reserve portfolios . but such actions may well be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows , which will undoubtedly intensify in the coming years , are driven largely by investor ’ interest in diversification and high-return public debt , rather than the country ’s image as an sanctuary of distressed financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset with substantial risks . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become an important reserve currency in the near future . and countries ’ desire to preserve good relations with china because of its rising economic might not be discounted .
obviously , there are other us-mexican agenda issues , ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues while going back to mexico on its traditionally traditional and archaic anti-interventionist stance toward regional diplomacy . and america ’s drug enforcement administration will not look tenaciously at any hindu mexican presidents ’ commitment to continuing waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of drug choice in mexico . the peasants in guerrero are cultivating amapola for both cartels rather than for their own livelihood . to be sure , there are other us-mexican issues , ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba .
on the heels of its success in sudan , it must stand against “ constitutional coups ” executed by presidents , because it sets itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance across africa . in 2015 , ecuador , under a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protest . the same year , similar protests have erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the introduction of a law designed to enable president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , in line with its agenda , 2063 . the au has resisted military coups in the past ; in the past , we have seen that .
moreover , fertility rates among immigrants are typically higher than they are in native european or north american families . higher fertility rates in america , the united kingdom and france reflect the large numbers of immigrant families in each eu country . but increasing the number of immigrant workers wo n't necessarily raise fertility rates . germany , for example , has large numbers of guest workers , but few settle there with their families ; most are leaving their children in their homeland . an aging population contributes to europe 's miserable economic performance as well .
impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go unnoted . perhaps the news was barely made up of ripple in america ’s new media . of course , there were no consequences whatsoever for cheney . the few that are noted typically end in smack of the christ , with the company – meaning its shareholders , picking up modest fines . the true culprits at the top of these companies rarely require worrying .
greene found that people asked to make their moral judgments about “ personal ” violations , like pushing a foreigner off a footbridge , showed increased activity in regions of the brain associated with the emotions . that was not the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations , like throwing the switch . moreover , the junior of subjects claimed it right to push the stranger away from a footbridge did take longer to achieve that judgment than those who said it would be wrong . for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors – had lived in small groups in which violence might be inflicted only within the context of a broadly close and personal way by hitting , pressuring , strangling , or using a stick or stone as a club . why would our judgments and our emotions actually differ ?
in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . now , investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , followed by other partners . moreover , in september of that year , sterling was devalued once more , as it had been for 18 years , by more than 30 % . political uncertainty is high and there is little prospect of another general election to resolve this anytime soon .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and manner . turkey went on to let an u.s.r. " operation provide comfort " against iraq in order to use turkish bases . relations with israel did , in fact , improve with more visits by high-level turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah -- refah . it remained an vital nato member . power in fact led the refah to compromise rather than the extremes .
new york – back in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren in the profession , a play whose title is the proprietor of a few brothels . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in little theater “ club , ” ” ostensibly confined to members . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of the “ prostitution ” business from a feminist standpoint . its performance in new york in 1905 was raided by the police as well . its opening to london in 1902 was staged in little theater “ club , ” ostensibly to limit members .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portends profound economic , political , and social fault lines . every year , some 13 million young people look to africa for work , but only about three million find jobs . the continent ’s youthful population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s school and universities do not produce enough graduates with the tech skills to succeed tomorrow ’s workplaces . but the crisis can be averted , and one solution may look just as simple as turning on the lights . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs in ten years through its youth jobs in africa ’s initiative , it is not immediately apparent where those opportunities will come from .
refusing even to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s statements go in a different way , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever embrace this kind of design , as was made clear in messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . they have not calculated that the palestinian people have dignity and national pride , just as any other nation will insist on being treated accordingly . now plans are a afoot to underpin a future of peace and security in the middle east ” ” through the us-polish conferences in warsaw on where palestinians do not participate . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not mean accommodating israeli settlements ’ illegal realities ; rather , it implies ending this colonial enterprise .
in any case , it is not as if avoiding talking about israel constitutes a departure for sanders . he certainly has never embraced israel as a political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians have . nor does israel appear to figure out much in its own jewish identity that is connected more strongly to the memory of the holocaust than to anything else . in any case , it is not as if avoiding talking about israel constitutes a departure for sanders . despite having spoken on matters where necessary , he has generally not been outspoken on issues concerning the country .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business . king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and has expressed his support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing has been said about human rights , much less women ’s rights for them , and the word “ democracy ” has never passed trump ’s lips . instead , trump finalized an agreement to provide $ 110 billion during the advanced armaments to saudi arabia that in turn will invest heavily in the american economy . the agreement seems to have become the hallmark of a wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime .
tips or their equivalent from other governments , provide safe inflationary hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risks . then , because gold issued $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold has done nothing to ameliorate the decline in the us dollar ’s value . a japanese investor who used dollar equities or real estate can instead offset the exchange-rate loss through purchases of yen futures . the same holds true for a european -based investor who would not have been gained by holding gold but could have offset the dollar ’s decline by buying up euro futures . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflation and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china has pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , every weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currency . europeans have become nervous after the euro ’s exchange rate soared to over $ 1.40 far beyond its purchasing power parity ( ppp ) rate of $ 1.17 . the central banks of south korea , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation and hence the defense of their exports . at the same time , the united states is now engaged in drastic steps taken against china and is creating provisions in the wto . but is china really to blame for eruption off a global currency war ?
but while such sources can deliver some valuable insights , they are not fulfilling the standards of a methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation should be based . for these reasons , we need more action by researchers , media , and civil-society organizations . it is critical that we are developing an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods to monitor incomes and wealth . government statistics agencies should publish the revenues and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes that such groups pay . to this end , a particularly important milestone will come with revision , owing over the next three years to the un ’s supra-national system .
moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that the replacement of obamacare is easier said than done . eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government slightly more than $ 100 billion annually , some 3 % of federal spending . but these grants receive a lot of money on their own dedicated taxes . health-care reform , as hillary clinton was able to show them , is fearsomely complicated . it is increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ trumpcare , ” ” ” ” anyone ?
during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , national mining companies , and parts of the electrical industry . inflation came down , but unemployment was falling , but unemployment was public debt and urban violence all rose sharply . social inequalities heightened , and brazil last year suffered from blackouts and electricity rationing . from his campaign began , lula shown strength , particularly after a right 's favored candidate , roseana sarney sarney , set himself and burned when federal police and prosecutors publicly discovered a storefront in her husband 's office . mr. and mr sarney was finally absolved of every charge but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
for $ 450 million , one could also purchase $ 180 million bed nets – enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . ( the figures are likely to be slightly smaller for all of these interventions , since the charity impact calculator is not even destined for such bulk amounts , and so ignores that the cost will rise when those who are the simplest way to reach have been met . ) when a person chooses to buy “ salvator men” mundi ” “ rather than to restore sight to nine million people , what does that say of their values ? ” to the extent that you think those receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gaming , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has proven not to do so . give directly ’s cash-transfer raises recipients at a time of food insecurity , wellbeing , or assets .
the mail managers will also manage incoming messages , facebook , linkedin , and other requests that are specified by the recipient , as well as collecting credit card information from vermont ( or more likely to charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payments systems as they emerge ) . early in the process , there will be lots of glitches , beginning with men who you know whom multiple email addresses , old friends not on your current white house lists of free senders , and so on . the recipient is not likely to see the complexities pass ; much of it will engage with each other in the eye . but such challenges will lessen over time and , as fewer mail personnel get , a bigger share will be asked and answered . to start , one can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , along with a list of people able to reach you for free .
for starters , on trade and immigration , bannon has acquired a philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self is another narrative ) . bannon has reinvigorated the nationalist inclination that has led trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his business advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by getting himself at the national security council for some time , pending two of trump ’s administration – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and vice president kelly ( now trump ’s chief of staff ) – getting him removed . ( bannon has been believed to be behind a recent push to compel mcmaster , mostly by suggesting to be “ anti-israel . ” ) it was a mistake to view bannon as pyrrhic on trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as trump ’s white house rasputin .
so the creditor , led by germany , tried to do the minimum needed to keep the euro alive , while debtors grumbled impotently on germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . indeed , they mistrust each other too much to cooperate . parochial suspicion was the primary impediment to grand solutions . no country wanted to feel that it was paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility on it . meanwhile , demand in much of europe is fragile , ruling out the economic growth needed to service its debts and offer hope for the country ’s 25 million unemployed .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and some 35 % vis-à-vis germany to restore external-debt sustainability . loan terms worsened abruptly , and what was left was the thoroughly overpriced rump of economies that became excessively reliant on foreign financing . in turn , the french economy suffers because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . the cheap credit ushered in by the european fed ’s € inflationary credit bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . the ecb and the international community , particularly the international monetary fund , have tried to deal with the crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with public credit .
the same happens even when you read philosophy of , say , husserl . if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , i collect volumes and cnn , and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , dying in 1804 . of course , encyclopedias are never intended to be read to cover themselves . the author opens a fist page and follows a host of questions , for you see the flow of he achieves his conclusions . the same happens , too , when you read philosophy of , say , husserl .
from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic rationale . what does it mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , or any other political entity ? letting them in might produce a better team but would not be our team at all . yet our emotions are those of algorithms , bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most of our choices , including politics ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not unite behind our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of this issue is the sense of “ us . ”
a careful study of 47 muslim-majority nations by the middle of the arab world , however , shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam that appears to be at loggerheads with democracy . should a government sprang out from reasonably fair elections , and an elected government have the capacity to fill the most important political offices , the country is perceived as “ electorally competitive . ” this inference is based on a comparison of muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” moreover , islam and democracy are frequently presumed to be bitter antagonists .
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it that , in turn , affects potential application and diffusion . on the other side , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger has correctly observed that venter ’s achievement “ is a techno-polity , ” rather than a conceptual one . other scientists have noted that an organism really is “ “ semi-synthetic , ” ” because a fully synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into a routine , or non-synthetic , bacterium . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse research guidelines that use recombinant dna or that of genetic engineering , ” techniques that follow . ( when anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . )
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the middle-income era has come to an end . in fact , nothing could come further from the truth . the pace of convergence accelerated further during , and just afterward , the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 : the aggregate average differential of per capita income growth went to over four percentage points in 2008-2012 , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades prior to the financial crisis . so , as i argued before , emerging-market countries ’ real average incomes would most likely continue in 2020 . that process began at the end of 1980 ’s and proceeded unabated , with the exception of the years surrounding the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 .
if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to france , then we need to change how we govern ourselves . labour has struggled to dodge the constitutional debate because any move forward on the direction of a federal institution requires addressing the party ’s ’s over-representation in the uk ’s parliament . it is unfair to cede ever more power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to give labour , which controls the 41 scotland constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what happens in england . that faith has , in turn , suited both major political parties . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its faith in the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate about how this union can be modernized .
that means reaching out to public figures to request on-the-record corrections , lodging complaints with norms bodies , and making training available in media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to avoid the broader circulation of misinformation , including across the international border . and we should work with schools and other learning platforms to help educate people to identify fake or misleading claims . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not simply on tackling fake information , but also on identifying sources of robust information and point their readers and followers toward them . this is an approach taken by our organizations , and , as small , under-resourced as they are , the impact is already apparent .
london – one of today ’s incontrovertible features of international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by a world of 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those to construct more , or are only too willing to deploy them , has been consigned to the margins of politics . american president barack obama has captured global attention with his prague declaration in 2009 that made a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he has deliver on a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and the material to theft or diversion . but , so far , nuclear issues are fighting for public resonance and political traction . it would take a courageous gambler to bet on ratification of the united states senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon .
it seems self-evident that a developed economy requires adequate , continuous investments in public-goods industries . but the american infrastructure state of our own suggests that many decision-makers do not share this view . a 2013 report by the american society of civil engineers gave the u.s. pathetic total grade to its own infrastructure . the report cited numerous state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams , ” and its 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 billion ” needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california . the report cited numerous state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams , ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 billion ” needed to upgrade drinking-water systems in california .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products are practically identical to other markets for global commodities , yet worldwide drug-control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other virulent diseases for which there is no demand . whatever is suppressed , effectively unregulated , except through criminal organizations . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces drug-related harm . governments can function unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to view prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . in fact , prohibition alone constitutes the abdication of regulation .
as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” our stockpiles until few big ones remain . moreover , fish will have no chance to reproduce , undermining fish stocks completely . there is , for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s joint fisheries policy to “ safeguard fish resources by regulating the amount of marine fish taken from sea , by permitting young fish to reproduce , and by making this action possible . ” this is for the best of reasons – the fish that get caught when they are too little will actually produce little yield . to see this , consider north sea cod .
but putin ’s ambition as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and adulation for their true thing . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians , and usually as much as 86 % , support him on anything from annexing crimea to his latest term as president . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin countersanctions , the discontent will continue to simmer . the truth of what people genuinely feel remains utterly impossible to know .
foreign bank penetration also effectively stripped those countries in central and eastern european monetary-policy tools , leaving them with little control over extraordinarily rapid credit expansion . yet it was probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread . now , funding from the parent banks that , in the earlier stages of the crisis , helped to lend liquidity to eastern european banking systems now seems more as a liability and a potential source of contagion . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors , who , under the old rule of law , had been intended to fend off these excesses . yet this vulnerability was largely shaped or at least accommodated by western banks .
emulating countries elsewhere , african governments , in particular , have responded to violent extremism by committing to tough ” security for the first time . but this strategy has not cut extremist groups ’ potency , or constrained their reach . add to that the failures of ethnic and religious pluralism , stirred by a large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusively military response can be waste of resources or do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly the root of development challenges .
whether to prohibit cigarettes entirely is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create new revenue sources for organized crime . moreover , wherever health-care costs everyone is paid – including in the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and elderly , everyone pays the cost of efforts to treat cigarette illnesses . the industry fears that the law could be copied in much larger markets , as in india and china do . it seems bizarre , though , to the extent that a state can essentially prohibit selling one ’s product , it seems curiously , but it might not allow it to be marketed only on packs that carry graphic images of the damage it causes to human welfare . now , the tobacco industry will take its fight against australia for laws to the world trade organization .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic – which has invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – suffered fewer than ten deaths . according to a recent rand study , united nations financing for disaster loss-reduction researchers in 2003 amounted to approximately $ 127 million – of only 7 % of the $ 100 billion invested in climate-change research for this year . in neighboring haiti , which was n’t ready , 2,000 lives were lost . climate-change policies are not the best way to mitigate weather-related effects . the united nations framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate exactly how the disasters they feared have linked climate change .
notably , leaders focused on investment , business , competition , and efforts to attract more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system in the international tax system ; and the way to target corruption . ( all of this dismayed australia ’s conservative host administration , which countered preventing the issue from raised even further ; the australian public nonetheless diligent , and promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that and other embarrassments . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions target as part of the formal g20 support for “ vigorous , effective action to address climate change . ” other formal g20 outcomes were agreements , backed by more policy detail than most commentators expected , to stimulate global growth . the g20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the un climate change conference in paris in december 2015 .
many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . if you wish to impress russian president vladimir putin , or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial setting as versailles is sure to prove effective . but reveling in a country ’s monarchical history may prove dangerous . but they may now be beginning to think more of the than louis xvi , the king who paid his life on the faults of his predecessors . can macron learn from his mistakes and regain the trust of french voters , who feel humiliated by him ?
the change was so notable that many policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of increasing economic dynamism and resilience – only to wonder what has proved to be a protracted and complicated revival process . as they have intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their un counterparts all over the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of the more successful periods of global policy coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging economies . for many , the world economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy got the corner . and it is also what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and misguided policy activism at the part of the american federal reserve .
housing wealth in the us has plummeted by only 34 % since its peak in 2006 , and is continuing to decline . the us stock market has fallen by almost 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down almost for a third . fears feeds on itself and the predictable that inventories will lose value become self-fulfilling . the recession of 2008 was triggered by the collapse of the us real-estate bubble . this enormous loss of wealth created a huge and persistent drop in the demand for consumption , which in turn drove up unemployment .
that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report outlining the phenomenon – and calling for a solution – . a well-functioning democracy is key to a free and healthy news media . just as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , politics and corporate accountability will only decline . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend the former at every cost . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did not buy a las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or else capture israeli media for campaign funds .
moreover , the black and yellow vests ’ victory has defined the alternative : red , dark red , and greens . this will change very quickly , particularly in view of the possibility of nato ’s troop increase in afghanistan . so far , they have to come to terms with a weak or feckless opposition . from now on , it will demand a trait that it has lacked so far : leaders and decision-making skills . the political camps of the old – the left as well as the right – are back for now .
the fourth challenge is changing how we produce , transportation , and consume energy . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investments in renewable-energy sources ( which , one hopes , create more jobs in the process ) . instead , we need integrated transport , housing , and land use , encourage dependence on public transportation , and make our streets nice and secure for walking ( particularly for women and the disabled ) . we can also give aid to households to consume fewer energy and enable companies to reduce the amount of energy that they waste . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure so that we can reallocate our precious resources repeatedly and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu undeniably has reason to celebrate . he surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office , after his right-wing likud party gained a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main opposition , the center-left zionist union . yet , in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while convincing palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible . netanyahu ’s finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to resume construction settlements on occupied land – will almost surely face severe political and diplomatic repercussions for israel . yet , for the time being , the celebration of celebration is probably short-lived .
simply put , faith in the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first-ever female warplane pilot . savchenko has been on a hunger strike across russia for over two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on fees , even more ludicrous than those for whom i have been imprisoned . of course , my hope is that a new agreement will last at last , at long last bringing the peace process to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , for example the automatic eviction of russia from a swift financial-transfer system should it renege on any aspect of the deal .
before anyone starts slashing their travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need to move people rather than information . thanks in part to the united nations collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized datahold donation of gdp to the center for international development at harvard university , we begin wasting some light on this enigma mystery . more populous countries have more trade travel in both directions , but the volume falls below proportionally with their populations : a country with 100 % or more of the population than another has only around 70 % more business travel . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia and frank neffke have set up some interesting stylized facts . why waste precious work times in aviation , safety checks , and await our baggage ?
the price of liberty , america ’s loved ones , are eternal vigilance . too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring out that he would go off quickly , do little harm . but it has not gone away , and it has done much harm . in confronting trump , there can be no discount at all . the us can not afford to make the same mistake ; it is n’t going to work .
beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a un climate champion – an image that some cabinet members have sought to cultivate , law jeopardizes peru ’s natural-resource landscape , and economic-growth prospects . ecuador ’s president ollanta humala recently won legislatures on a package of “ realistic ” ” ” ” ” procedures to slash red tape perceived as hampering investments in extractive industries , extremely industries on which the economy should become less dependent . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , establish environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental impact assessments . and , while the government has recognizes the imperative of growth-enhancing reform efforts , its approach is all wrong . peruvian administrations , for now , have a serious problem .
when pundits weigh in on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class , as well as booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society – the relative crude of hard-won freedoms and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or a colonial administration , means for individual liberty . ( still less do they note the role that female empowerment and feminism played in development . ) fifa and the government of brazil ’s recent protests are placing at risk what the paquim commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . the problem for the government of president dilma rousseff , who has been herself imprisoned and tortured under a army regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake .
the eu is , after all , a military-political alliance that sets democratic norms for new members and aspirants . with this in mind , no romanian government can neglect these standards , either . how can nato help with that ? directly , this can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much of a lot . indeed , nato is no longer just a military alliance .
one might have expected us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump was also quick to recognize opposition leader juan guaidó as the interim leader of state , after guaidó invoked widespread backing among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has crumbled , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of an underclass of corrupt tycoons , effectively “ the mafia ” that bought up military ’s loyalty with massive cash-bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . maduro , for his part , has joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey in terms of policy prisoners . the mob ’s antagonists are repressed , often brutally so .
if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , shoring up banks ’ reserve requirement ratio , momentum for restructuring could wane ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity would spill over to the real sector . but , so far , depressed funding costs have had a limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on banks ’ credit to over-indebted firms remains near 7 % , while economic growth edged down , from 7.4 % year on year in the most recent quarter . as a result , the situation may not be dire , but it is far from ideal , especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . as a result , the pboc now faces a dilemma .
drafted with a reference to a un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the creation of a palestinian state and a state on the basis of the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . rather than closing doors , such a redefinition of the un ’s statehood bid would provide the palestinian leadership with a much-needed symbolic achievement , including a framework from which to restart negotiations – the longstanding palestinian demand . it would also indirectly address israeli governments ’ demands that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” whereas such an approach would surely fall short of maximalist palestinian aspirations , it would embrace the sdgs outlined in may by us president barack obama .
robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and security . europeans have proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in fields such as robotics . given that ongoing changes in manufacturing resources have already kickback this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that robots are being taxed to pay for human services . whether this is the best answer nowadays is the topic of much debate ; but , apparently , some kind of compromise will have to be made . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue than about taxation .
heraclitus ’ warnings against bathing in the same sea twice disappear on us economic ministers , insisting on bathing bathing regularly in contaminated waters . “ all of this changes , it is going to be said , ‘ everything will change ’ . that way , goes the refrain , in a famous argentine “ song . ” whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what will happen if argentina pays back its foreign debt and then inevitably pays back its debt , under deep pressure from the international monetary fund and the us . in fact , however , in argentina everything stays the same or becomes worse .
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , robust global-governance institutions are critical to solving the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our existing institutions – including , first and foremost , the un – been frailer . we have seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , to migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not broken , but gets into trouble , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
mass action depended on local organizations seizing an initiative that was based on a loose global plan . within ninety days , those organizers had turned out to have over five million protestors worldwide . the decision to trigger february 15 as the day of widespread protest was blatantly received at a meeting of climate activists at the european welfare forum in florence in november last year . there are three keys to the phenomenon : the business of working with local governments ; the business interests of the company at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . the internet has enabled a quick , expansive organizational plan at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers .
the new facility , for which money is to be earmarked , will house 106 inmates ( an accurate figure is uncertain ) who have been neither tried nor charged . according to the american southern command spokesperson , overseeing gemo , a starved strikers are disillusioned because they believed obama ’s vow to close gitmo . indeed , they are being cleared to leave , and they are only obama ’s inability to hold his promise – and america ’s congress ’s failure to legislate their transfer – that keep them there . how better to memorialize that determination than with a building compound at prison ? eighth of the inmates are now entering a second month of hunger strikes .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that boost dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits of increased chinese ( and other us ) doing business are shared broadly . it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s own ; the world also has decisions that must be made . technology flows and innovations : increased technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support the development of globally competitive , phased solutions ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer technology flows that are increasingly committed to safety reviews . according to our simulacrum , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , owing to the scale that technology flow unleash innovation and productivity growth .
using iceland as our measurement stick , the cost for greece of not exiting the eurozone is the equivalent of 75 % of one year ’s ’s gdp – and counting . it is hard for me to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even a quarter of that . to be sure , as the late american economist barry eichengreen has argued in a 2007 paper , techconsiderations make exiting the eurozone difficult , costly , and dangerous . but that is only one side of the ledger ; in fact , it has been one side since . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which is not in the eurozone – has basically recovered .
there is only one possible way to explain america ’s administration ’s decision to exert such a diplomatic push in favor of iran ’s favorite to iraq : obama ’s pledge during his first presidential election campaign to disengage iran from iraq during his first term as president . in that case , obama follows the example of us president george w. bush leaving america ’s foreign-policy agenda rather than the american one – not to mention iraq , national interests , dictate iraq ’s policy . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , was unable to secure a second-round run-off after the election attests to widespread opposition within his continuing rule among iraq ’s political class . last march , trump circulated on his loss of votes , maliki asserted that state security would be put at risk if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as supreme commander-in-chief .
when one believes a narrative , one acts in ways that make it happen true . the signal – in this case , the promise to balance one ’s books – creates reality . in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself ever got his family annexed importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . when one believes a narrative , one acts in ways that make it work . signal , in this case , promise to balance one ’s books generates reality .
this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria , particularly in the fight against malaria . in response to dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the countries ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which currently is working to fill the pressing funding gaps , but will end up helping to lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eliminate malaria from the ground up . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in an antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains of the disease . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . but it is also a moment of opportunity .
alternatively , a country of diverse interest groups might like lebanon ’s of feuding factions , find it to return to outsiders negotiating solutions to its problems . if sunnis come to believe that the shia , as well as the kurds , intend to treat them as second-class citizens , it would have little stake in the success of maliki ’s government , and might once again start pursuing their geopolitical interests through other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . worse still , factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . there are good reasons for iraq to shun lebanon ’s example . even in the best of times , lebanon has muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that operates in the shadow of a big shia-dominated militant organization .
the us had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , that conspiracy is about being thicken . that ’s not to say that america ’s trade partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean limiting hope in tackling seemingly chronic trade deficits , and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to such imbalances – as long as the us does not start saving again . trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead .
across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is seen as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th in 1967 , when israel beat armies of three arab countries , conquering the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days . arab intellectuals and , indeed , the broader arab public , are now preoccupied with trying to analyze and comprehend the lessons of the iraq earthquake . fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a columnist for jordanian newspaper al-ra “ i. ” their tactic has been to block a clear review of the iraqi catastrophe , by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting america ’s occupation of iraq . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now preoccupied with defending the same old totalitarian thinking .
and , while the recovery in the advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it did in 2012 , drove investment growth , albeit still swift , to its lowest level in the last 11 years . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s top capital exporter signifies a gross misallocation of resources . more broadly , a country can run a current-account deficit or surplus continuously for decades . but , as a result , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic – and so are . meanwhile , its outsize current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) might be the result of its elevated investment-income deficit .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability of the united nations ’ global footprint network , mankind will , over the next year , use the planet ’s resource budget . that “ earth graver day ” has stirred up forward by astonishing two months in the last 20 years , and in 2019 , it will arrive earlier than ever before . although mankind ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in so many ways , climate change has the broadest – and longest-lasting – effects . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . the carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint .
the economic boom is the one source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . few people , even the members of the party , still have faith in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . and popular discontent with official corruption and political oppression was amply demonstrated in every region of china in 1989 . the communist government managed to stay in power after tiananmen did not simply through brute force . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among an educated middle class , was bought up with the promise of more riches .
furthermore , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially , owing to housing-costs ; that figure is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households were living in substandard housing , or struggled financially , owing to the cost of housing ; that figure is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 . even in underdeveloped economies like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue at least in emerging-market countries .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at hearing to decipher what dosage whistles applied in the united states ’ election campaigns . listen even dueling and you understand that mexicans and the chinese get working with wall street in order to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their supposed job of them , and that muslims want them to blow everyone up . all this scare mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare . it is frightening to people in foreign countries who may conclude that the world ’s sole superpower has become unhinged . and it is horrific to americans , who , until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – that they were living in a republic based on the tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln and trump , along with franklin roosevelt .
professor nicola rossi , an economically advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish that the us has “ less to the fathers and more to our sons . ” but if labor unions are powerful or seniors are at majorities ( in italy , the two coincide , because seniors are the two majority in all labor unions ) , the precise opposite is happening . put in these terms , the problem is always solved by giving more room to those with the most political power . italy ’s recently concluded budget , which neither confronted the issue of pensions nor questions of fiscal reform , demonstrates this entirely . herein lies the grand delusion of the eu ’s budget and finance ministry in italy .
oslo – education is a human right , and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . beyond such figures , there are young children and young children who are denied not only the right , but the opportunities : a fair chance to get a decent job , to escape poverty , to support their families , and to develop their communities . globally , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school , according to the world bank . over 120 million children do not complete primary education , according to the world health organization . and , like other human rights , they can not be taken for granted .
smallholder farmers , both female and male , are africa ’s largest agricultural development investors . yet africa ’s smallholder farmers are grappling with major barriers to achieving their potential . on average , they apply fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectares , compared to 140 kilograms in india . and agriculture ’s gdp growth is more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as a result of growth elsewhere . moreover , fewer than 5 % of agricultural land is irrigated , with improved crop varieties seldom used .
clearly , the majority of eu member governments are not . gm foods have now been heading for the us market in the us for over 12 years . the question is whether decision-makers are prepared to use them . but , then , why are developing-country governments digging their feet ? are the risks so high for justifying the suffering that could have been avoided ?
the derivatives market no doubt helps spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the baseline stands . certainly , there are some good economic reasons why the lenders have such insatiable debt appetite . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role . of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some type of debt toolkit , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government securities . imperfect information and difficulties in tracking firms raise substantial barriers to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
whereas italy has received around € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed contracts for bri projects worth over $ 80 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows italy ’s sorely needs , considering have constrained lending by its banks . but there are several compelling reasons why italy should not move down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 bri strategy on china . for starters , italy ’s ’s ’s interests may not align with those of china . italy ’s exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) per year , while eu imports total roughly € 29 billion .
after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , public patience has worn thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders have surged to power on the promise of leveling the playing field in recent decades . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have yielded some short-term rewards , especially toward the poor . but such measures have frequently been plagued by populism , and ultimately have done more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social programs has failed to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals .
even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader , mitch mcconnell , issued a #thursday that he had been “ “ aggrieved ” by leaving mattis ( a significant indication , many believe , mcconnell ’s private worry about trump ’s impact on the republican party . ) the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress had expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . his articulate resignation letter made it clear that he objected not just to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and adversaries ; his willingness to abandon friends like the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , such as nato . mattis ’s cronies explained in televised interviews that what the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not just that he could no longer influence policy , but also that his left in the cabinet was cast as affirmation of trump , a position he could no longer hold .
after all , visas are actually being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with an unintended side effect of harming international business in china . china ’s top priority , however , is not only to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to spur growth , while protecting its monopoly power . the government has strengthened its own security system , having run into a ubiquitous surveillance system . the regime is set to prove to anyone , again in the name of human rights , with an unintended side effect of harming international business in china .
it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning . if globalization , in its variety dimensions , is to have to be backed by popular majorities , italy will have to be accompanied by a modernizing social policies that provide effective help for those who need it . at a time of continuous economic disruptions , this will all be all the more consequential . traditional center-right policies would not readily be compatible with a strong , internationalist bent . only one of those appears at a tenable possibility .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue losses from a outright prohibition of smoking : electronic cigarette . given that e-cigarettes simply heat a nicotine solution to produce an inhalable vapor , they release none of the carcinogenic tar smoke by making them the ideal nicotine-delivery system to smokers seeking – or have been forced to reduce or suspend its tobacco intake . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . as yanzhong huang of the organization ’s foreign relations council recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarette smoke , this would mean a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ” yet , despite substantial advances in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province has housed 900 devices , more than 200 % from 2012 , and accounted for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production , traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market .
the reason the un ’s climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas , centered on discretionary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , highly applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference , is an easy step . but countries automatically come to terms with adherence to those targets as sacrifice : in attempting to reduce emissions by x one-pound , the us would lose y million jobs , and gdp would fall by as much as $ z trillion . because there are no actual penalties or punishment for failure , when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their mind . even if a government tries to honor its commitments by , say , imposing new regulations on the high-emitting industries , it may not get the desired results .
this would provide chinese smartphone firms with the opportunity to seize market share from the major players . declining trade costs have allowed us firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with goods that are processed and value added across multiple countries along the pipeline . today , about 80 % of global trade is embedded in international supply chains ; today , it is based on the internet itself . while china provides just 4 % of value added , it supplies core components to apple at low prices . apple can not build an iphone from scratch ; it would have to search for alternative suppliers , raising its manufacturing cost considerably .
third , a higher ceo ’s pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in high-ceo pay slice , the probability of a ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s ’s ’s length ) is lower . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a stamp of governance problems . lower sensitivity to performance turnover reflects less willingness on a segment of board to discipline the ceo . finally , higher-ceo pay slice makes their ceo pay slice more likely to provide their ceo with options that turn out to be opportunistically timed .
if europe is to become one , if the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies - that is , in the interests of all of europe - a set of vital tasks has to take place , within new democracies as well as euro-atlantic communities . any weighty occurrence provokes " repercussions " across the continent . to start , europe must foster a community in the baltic countries by restoring civil society . for a living society can not be restructured from above . at the same time , there is only one europe , despite such diversity .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach merely fails to prolong the conflict . the eu and the us must remain firm and unified on their policies toward russia . this approach offers the best chance to bring about an end to the current confrontation , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . the sooner the western-backed former western convinces russia that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict would come to an end . of course , if a partnership is to work , russia must earn back the trust it breaks down , demonstrating its commitment to abide by the treaties and international behavioral norms to which it agrees .
today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to urge the collection of some crumbs from the country to be pensioners . nine times out of ten ; nothing truly serious happens – mere somewhat distress for individuals or groups . should they once again press their demands , forcing greece into exit , the world will never again have confidence in europe ’s longevity . but we are running the risk , at least , of the tenth time … ” at the end of the year or two , we will be running in the world ’s weaker members . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will be facing increased market pressures .
thus , a meritocracy that seems to be preferable , at least at first glance . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or some gerontocracy , in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy in which what counts is inherited titles and properties . to many , france has long been the epitome of a meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , things are not as straightforward . most of these at the top reach of the top reaches not only civil service and judiciary , but also in terms of politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
in america , for example , most elite universities channel only around 9 % of students from the bottom half , while 74 % come from the top one-quarter . as a result , america waste some of its most precious assets , with some young people , bereft of skills , turning to dysfunctional activity . most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . but , in america , more is spent on educating wealthy students than educating the poor . in fact , most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential .
even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to a civilian authority . for decades , le pouvoir used oil revenues to buy relative public-health quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves have been concentrated in the global south , and were thus lost when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and , now , it is political stability that is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is daunting , particularly given key resources constraints like water and agricultural land . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms , stacked greenhouses that exploit an artificial light to grow crops , can provide large savings , which might then spill over to consumers . but the questions about such holdings of fundamental economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . now , a third approach is emerging : vertical farming .
still , we need to confront squarely on the intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . in fact , what it does mean , the problem is political ; we also know how to get things done . what this means is that pension and tax institutions have to be designed to take better account of the changing circumstances confronting different generations rather than making fixed promises – which most likely can not keep , anyway , at a certain payoff in the future . pensioners are amongst the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamentally vital an issue . our retirement systems and our national budgets need to be based on a `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreads effective across generations .
but any gains from lower tax rates are more than offset by losses in the private sector , which , faced with higher cost funding , will invest less in turn undermines economic growth and , in turn , reduce government revenue . this may only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . lower financing costs for government debt seem a net gain to a company , because the government then saves on the debt service it can keep taxes low . but what is proposed now will make investment lending even less attractive and increase the incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector . a variety of steps – in recent years – have been taken to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . instead , america has their own fantasies of achieving a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major impediment . indeed , the only obstacle remaining to palestinian leaders is the american people . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that america would back such statehood ’s declaration of statehood if talks failed , mitchell responded that any such commitment makes negotiations pointless . in order to change in israel , the americans are launching various trial balloons .
these old tensions assumed new dimensions , as the commercial potential of human tissue seizes the entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to deal with cell usage , tissues , and genes . the most well known case against the body politic is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia and had his spleen removed at a ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his or her knowledge or consent , established contracts , and sold rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to make drugs derived from the “ mo ” cell line . the commercial calculus behind this enterprise did sometimes produce riots until the anatomy code allowed bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead , thereby reassuring middle class individuals that their bodies would not attend them .
black , red , and gold german tricolor , for their part , have adorns entire countries as never before , yet almost nowhere are there nationalist undertones . in berlin , like other big german cities , taxi sports sport flags of their drivers ’ homes countries – from angola to saudi arabia – from angola to saudi arabia . fans don not only their peoples ’ flags , but also fanciful costumes evocative of their homeland countries ’ colors . yet the germans , undaunted by italy all , simply keep celebrating one grand soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world . in fact , the flags of many peoples fly alongside germany .
fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed while only 100 days later . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and a traumatized population with little faith in local or international institutions.nation-basic immunization coverage was less than 30 % . in order to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , the relevant actors , from health workers to government agencies , must once again engage with those affected communities to win back their trust . meanwhile , the epidemic of death toll has been building steadily .
for starters , corruption cripples development prospects . meanwhile , corruption is decried across cultures and throughout history . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or royalties for natural resources are siphoned off to resources ; or the private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of key cronies , populations can not realize their potential . it has existed for as long as government institutions have been in place ; but , like other crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with disruptive effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with business leaders and civil-society representatives , will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition .
in fact , the street protests have intensified , fueled by new grievances . protests started when the government tried to enact amnesty legislation that had overturned a conviction by former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , yingluck ’s twin brother and ptp ’s ptp founder , who was overthrown by the military in 2006 , on charges of corruption and abuse of power . yingluck ’s government was reluctant to take on a constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to change the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber . ( it also would overstate the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s supreme leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to back an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition .
now , eu member states are more divided than ever before , even on the most fundamental questions about the european project . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the biggest group in the european parliament , such appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been superseded by resurgent nationalism . new presidents of the european commission , the council of europe , and the european central bank will be appointed , along with a new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy . moreover , the east is increasingly being carried out against the west and the north against the south .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to make investments in domestic health systems . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in developing countries . but , at a time when countries rush to build more clinics , the resulting facilities typically have been constructed and lack facilities , supply , and staff needed to deliver vital health services efficiently . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a handful of health facilities that communities could do without . but , when countries rush to build more clinics and other health-care facilities in even remotest regions might seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage ( uhc ) , that has n’t proved true .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on certain issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . for example , wilson would probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . likewise , he would probably advocate a kind of fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest companies and households funding , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health care . it is indeed problematic if america ’s banks and businesses can export capital , technologies , and employment as they please , with little or no regard for , domestic costs . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulation , through a western-dominated multilateral process .
when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our workforce was proficient in english-language . but , in march 2010 , in a move i believe was key to our subsequent rate of growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” ” ” ” a blueprint to make english our corporate language in less than two years . the goal was to lay the groundwork for global expansion , in an industry that had been competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . unsurprisingly , some on my team were neutered ; others , particularly those outside the firm , thought i was a bit lunatic . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are pushing us in how to build a global brand headquartered in the japanese capital .
but this would merely weaken the banks ’ borrowing portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to bolster them . tax hikes and cuts in government spending remain necessary ; there is no avoiding this reality . the ecb ’s decision to provide unlimited liquidity to banks does not resolve governments ’ debt problems ; nor is its intent . europe is ’s second vicious spiral running from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and return to fiscal consolidation . but it is at least preventing the debt problem from creating a banking crisis that , in turn , makes the already-tenuous debt problem worse .
this sterility and inertia make europeans less and less exciting . indeed , india now holds some of the world ’s top engineers , technicians , and medical professionals . add to that a recipe as well . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy help make up close to 60 % of new drugs in america , compared with just 40 % only ten years ago . thus , american eyes turn elsewhere : to a china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy that is growing at a 8-10 % average annual high in switzerland and india , behind its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people perished over the age of 14 , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on traditional warning systems have suffered no known casualties . with their reverence for – and understanding – nature , such groups serve as environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing critical roles in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die far faster if we suddenly contact them with these modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies . these tribes might remain isolated , but their demise will have profound consequences . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been fizzled directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , water drillers , hunchers , hunters , and other interlopers .
to be sure , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was mostly usurped by the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making , and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu member states . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties stemming from globalization . in my ex-professional roles , i witnessed as few others with the entrance of poland and of hungary into euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope at that momentous time . that is why it is so difficult to fathom their position today .
it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the prosperity of all . today , many of the benefits of humanity depend on the sea from the pacific to the indian oceans remain fully open . if we distill felt the very spirit infused into international law over the ages , and reformulate it as three principles , the rules-based rule of law at sea becomes a matter of commonsense . no single particular country or group has created international maritime law as it once existed . but , exactly , does this mean ?
moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have an even higher risk of being directed at sexualized violence – for example , force-fed pregnancies . sexual violence may take many forms ; understanding its potential purpose may help to predict and prevent their use . to be sure , workable solutions must weigh on the local context . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool have been more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual assault than groups that recruit through other means . when perpetrators of sexual assault are called upon in high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands .
ten years ago with the maastricht treaty , eu member states agreed on the question of history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which greece recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect cultural heritage ; it obliges the union actively to protect , retain , and develop europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can succeed in that task only if its various constituent cultures are not to seal themselves off from one another . because the enlarged union will become a reality in just two months , concepts of cultural understanding that contribute to successful integration by bringing together the new members . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively easy to convey .
if successfully implemented , that agenda likely reversal of the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , global saving and consumption patterns have undergone considerable change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china seeking to reestablish its internal equilibrium . in fact , china has been responsible for the saving side , with america disproportionately billing its consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese – and american – into america ’s creditors . this model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment . a doubling of average household income by 2020 , the target set by the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november , is likely to release 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s huge domestic and international growth becoming the new global driver .
after all , four decades of evidence has now shown that corporations in europe , like america , are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion to top positions , regardless of how much the “ soft constraint ” ” is placed on them . when women are breaking through to the corporate power summit , as sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook , they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception that they remain . but , when one considers the barriers to achieve a meritocratic ideal , one looks as if a fairer world has to be temporarily mandated . in my view , i understand re-combine ’s reticence and her frustration . i do not like quotas either ; they run counter to my beliefs about meritocracy .
new delhi – in 2009 , as i competed in india in terms of recent parliamentary elections , i was something of a rarity . i was not a professional politician , but one day now , only in the west . i had not even lived in india for decades , having spent my adult life working abroad for the un . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seats or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered the race without a political “ godfather . ” on the other hand , all other candidates in my constituency , indeed , most combatants across the country , have devoted their entire life life to politics , many since their student days .
the fdp has abandoned the talk of frustration that , as its leader christian lindner put it , “ the four debating partners have no common vision for modernizing the country or a common basis for trust . ” ultimately , however , its experiment has failed . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other eu member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” : half is cosmopolitan , half communitarian . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still wields a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . in these arab countries , the governing council represents the whichever side has won the most recent round in an ongoing culture war .
for starters , all countries need to define the crimes of online child trafficking and incorporate it into their national penal codes , alongside tough penalties for violators . all hiring operations , advertising , and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking , should also be criminalized . raising awareness about the issue also has been crucial , particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave their children even more vulnerable . parents need to build trust bridges to make sure that their children feel free about their problems . likewise , faith leaders should educate and sensitize their followers to do so .
if more teenagers have access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives interrupted by pregnancies . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and those with special needs , a often-overlooked segment of youth populations . moreover , communities need to increase access to sexual and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . following school and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults should be opened . such reforms are key to improving guyana ’s life prospects .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of all working-age populations might prefer to earn one ’s income , either primary or secondary , from independent work . meanwhile , many are lower-income workers who would otherwise have been unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus employment – growth would diminish the pool of workers engaged in the independent work . but , whatever macroeconomic conditions , it seems likely that an independent job takes account of a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while digital freelance platforms are still in their infancy – and account for just 15 % of independent workers – they are spreading and expanding rapidly .
in that they were realists realists , but they did call for some measure of civic control over the authorities , in both the political and economic sphere . crucially , the protesters did not demand free elections , either . demand for cessation of censorship was one of the early political slogans of the polish march ‘ 68 ’ . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize followed , let alone the rule of law . crucially , the protesters were not calling for free elections .
new haven – in what could well be the final act of desperation , central banks are abdicating efficient control over the economies that they have been given to managing . adopting negative interest rates – originally started in europe in 2014 , and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for the central banking sector . previously , the emphasis was shifted to boosting aggregate demand , primarily through lowering the cost of borrowing , but also by easing the wealth effects from appreciating financial assets . just as the first two players failed to gain meaningful economic traction in exchange for chronically weak recoveries , shifting to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial fragility and set the stage for the next crisis . acceptance of negative interest rates – originally started in europe in 2014 , and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking .
indeed , the price of permits fell less than three euros per ton in april 2013 , rendering emissions-trading markets nearly meaningless . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proven ruinously expensive . as a result , demand now seems to be falling short of any binding constraint . this , in turn , has emboldened greater reliance on highly polluting coal , with its worst energy source from the standpoint of global warming . that would not have happened , so long as the price mechanism still underpins climate-change policy .
of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , rather than on bilateral imbalances . while china might actually want to keep oil out of the middle east , those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might worry more about gucci handbags than it did in china in mass-produced manufactured goods . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries . so china can run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us ; but those bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . the task facing the imf is formidable after all .
between 2018 and 2008 , the us suffered from the seventh-most stressed population aging in the world less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , though more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from the zero ( worst-case ) to ten ( the best way of life ) , in 2018 , americans responded with a 6.9 average , down from 7,0 in 2017 , and 7.3 between 2006-2008 and 7.3 during 2006-2008 . queriing on the basis of their feelings the previous day , most americans ( 55 % ) said that they had experienced stress during a lot , almost half ( 45 % ) said they felt worried a lot , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they felt anger lots . such stresses are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 . stresses , worry , and anger all hit ten-year american highs in 2018 .
they have to internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of conduct . to this end , banks should make their own values and culture broadly integral to their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions . indeed , constant reminders and repetition are essential . employees must understand instinctively what can be done , and what should never be made . a proscribed code – emphasizing commercial contributions of ethical enterprise conduct , and the negative consequences of falling short – is part of this effort and can help to preserve and strengthen a culture ; but a code itself does not suffice .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained a governing right , and today the majority of women in the developed world seem to be enfranchised . the law has allowed women to vote since 1956 , nearly a decade after independence from britain . but , in much of the developing world , the opposition that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists . this certainly exists in pakistan , where the december general election set for july 25 provides the ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first glance , pakistan appears progressive .
in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually rose . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice as fast as the euro crisis was worsening and unemployment soared to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . they went on to take advantage of the old , discredited models , perhaps moderately modified . it was supposed to be the case that most central banks held preposterous models – both formal models and the mental models that guide policymakers in ’ thinking – got it wrong . none foreseeing the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , there has been a semblance of full employment .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his recent wife , were as incompetent at governing as kim ; but , following the calamity of the cultural revolution , the antagonism toward them inside the army and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , along with the gang of the four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . but mao ’s death at least did the end of the era of caesarism in china . because he had not had a son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do the job . china ’s progress from caesarism to despotism and then from marxism to capitalism has had fortunate china ’s citizens .
the most fateful attack to accompany the installation of any form of dictatorship there is an assault on civil society . though communism could , each time and then aggregated with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored it overnight . but revived civil society – the many mutually reinforcing ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , because soon the peoples of egypt and tunisia find themselves soon . we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh experience of the communist era .
even more to the point : was trump quick to invoke the principle of collective defense in accordance with article 5 of the nato treaty ? and would putin make another “ unbelievable ” bid to assist one ’s investigators at the bottom of things ? then , imagine america ’s intelligence agencies confirmed that an act of aggression was actually underway despite putin ’s denials . after all , finally , imagine how trump might react . would he have called putin to ask , or to what extent , ’s going up ?
but those external risks do n’t make the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . europe ’s growth might turn out to be above trend growth , just as it continues its long period of slow recovery from its pre-crisis debt crisis earlier this decade . and china ’s economy has been proved doubters wrong for many years . the baseline scenario for america still has strong growth . so 2019 could turn out to be another year of robust global growth .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of american supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec won in the american court of appeals , dc , on technicality – the sec ’s inability to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . at a press conference last december , i asked the sec chair mary schiiro when her agency planned to reintroduce rule . but she confessed that the sec had numerous other items on its agenda and placed the issue on the back backburner – a polite way of saying that the sec , like the heroic students at tiananmen square , had surrendered under irresistible pressure . i have even offered to take on the cost-benefit analysis of a free press . this small-scale victories had turned into a major defeat for shareholders , when the sec , rather than perform such analysis and reproposing the rule , chose to stall .
indeed , the fed ’s expansionary monetary policy has been inadequate to jump-start an american recession , however one that remains so mild that many doubt whether it qualifies as a true animal . the european central bank ’s response has been an analogous response to the fed ’s , but a lesser constraint , with monetary policy easier to meet than headline inflation rates suggests would be appropriate . admittedly , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic have reacted to the financial crisis in brief , but have not over-reacted . and , in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . but these are , in fact , no normal times .
recent elections are a disaster for kenya ; but the policy response , led by the american-led international community , is no less distressing . eu observers have also made clear that the election tally failed to face basic international standards . when the opposition tried to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly proclaimed kibaki the victor . days later , the eck ’s chief head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results ” promptly , despite clear evidence of voting rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who truly won .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . but it makes it harder for monetary policymakers to respond by imposing trade barriers . given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data , as they do , little weight should be tied to them . furthermore , a host of risk-related premiums make such indicators difficult to interpret . thus , unsurprisingly , surveys of households ’ and firms ’ inflation expectations forecast actually more accurately .
at first sight , it seems counterintuitive that companies would seek to share data , and potentially yield away competitive rewards . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold assumptions about the boundaries of pre-competitive collaboration that need to be challenged . as a recent morgan stanley report points out , the pharmaceutical industry in terms of current success rates is inadequate to sustain large domestic r & d organizations , making the industries of the current operating model financially unviable . the drugs that are making it into the market have to fund the costs of failing to force it into the markets . but this presupposes that owning such data does indeed imply a competitive advantage , making a closed operating model financially sustainable .
despite a tightening economic noose – the us has imposed sanctions on all firms doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions against iranian oil exports by the end of january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough of iran ’s blast uranium to build a bomb there . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region already volatile and violent , and that determines the world of its oil prices is an appalling scenario . attempting to compel iran to back with steadily mounting sanctions has failed to produce results . indeed , despite the tightening economic noose , america has imposed sanctions on all firms doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by the end of january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough nuclear uranium to build a bomb . while the iranian administrations might most likely be deterred from using a nuclear weapon , the price for a nuclear-armed iran may well stage a regional arms race – a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt .
if applied , bank capital will become scarcer , inflows of credit slower , and bank fees higher in already-stable countries , simply because others spent a fortune supporting their financial systems – and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . the same is true , for instance , of the derivatives trading system . the post-crisis harmonization fervor across italy means that italy and spain will now find themselves more costly everywhere to insure against currency volatility or unforeseen interest-rate changes . that levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial-sector sectors are in post-crisis tatters , has been hard to swallow for eu member states that have not intervened to bail out their banks . the levy is a simple way to spread the political and financial costs of the crisis from some to every eu member .
learnup , a san francisco startup that has attracted financing from some of silicon valley ’s biggest venturecapital companies , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to a particular job , primarily entry-level positions that do not require a college degree . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them to recruit higher-quality applicants . at & t , they offer scholarships through partners in non-profit institutions , providing paid internships to up to 100 graduates . and , indeed , once the candidates have completed well-funded devices , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already includes several large companies . in the us , a california community college system is already working with learnup to give their students access to the skills they require to fill accessible local jobs .
porto – a military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country poses an immense danger not only to egypt ’s ’s ’s democratic transition , but to its democratic hopes throughout the arab world as well . ironically , morsi ’s government appeared incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority is insufficient , particularly nowadays . of course , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own failings , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which had contributed to his election . the fact that a coup was undertaken with massive popular backing attests to the tremendous hardships that the muslim brotherhood faced during its first return to power . president mohamed morsi ’s administration struggled to tackle egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the tremendous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not just for freedom , but also for economic development and social justice .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial , accused of complicity in the rwandan genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . and french military intervention in the central african republic has not placed an end to severe inter-communal violence there . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to this day in africa , possibly on a larger scale than elsewhere in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . in south sudan , africa ’s coptic state , massacres of civilians continue to take place , particularly around the mediterranean city . unfortunately , the mass killings in africa are continuing .
one shudders to think that what will happen unless europe withdraws from its current funk . moreover , with mounting concerns about the sustainability of american fiscal policy , the euro has a massive opportunity to play a significantly larger role as a reserve currency . europeans might not have heard this right now ( one sees as more obama t-shirts in europe than the us ) , but they might not be so happy if george bush iii comes along iii . confident , europeans would probably not wait so long to move ahead again . certainly , europe would lose its traction as a badly needed american counterweight in world economic policy .
the third arrow is not a traditional , industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and reduced corporate-tax rates . this implies that it was not advisable to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed significantly – that is , until now . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into the japanese economy . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to enlarge the workforce – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s electoral departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of mayhem unfolding from gaza , which israel has vacated and the collapse of the palestinian authority ahead of our eyes . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ at margin , ” but the rapidly pace of technological change pushes us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs . many of us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only by a providential man , with everyone the hopes and dangers that this entails . nor , on the contrary , will the emergence of another providential figure come easy . not all exceptional periods create their bonapartes , and this probably is a good one , for exceptional leaders perhaps provide the illusion that all problems have solutions farther away from true .
so , while cameron ’s government ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eu can not and will not be shaped from outside and according to british interests . the uk does not have the wherewithal to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to move forward . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including measures relating to the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . uk leadership in these regions has been greatly appreciated , and would be sorely missed should the british decide that they should leave . indeed , at the end of last year , ’s negotiations on the eu ’s “ fiscal compact ” with the european union should already show cameron the difficulty of sticking to the so-called national veto .
it is already clear that the obama administration has not known what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what should come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal . but they will fault the american people for not quite comprehended a bigger war . it is already clear that the obama administration has failed to know what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what would come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal . in july of that year , robert s. ford , the american ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father governed the massacre 30 years earlier . in fact , in july , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was dispatched to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the massacre of 30 years earlier .
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under increasing pressure to float the currency . if a fixed-exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , the rise in domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow on foreign currencies , and convert them into domestic currency investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervene by selling domestic currency , especially against america ’s dollar , until interest rates and money supply recover to its old levels . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . every policy of economics students is taught the mundell-fleming model that the economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , loose capital movements , and autonomous monetary policies simultaneously .
us presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more committed proposal : a 15 % tax credit for profits that companies distribute to workers over two years . tax credit could also foster changes in corporate culture , through spurring suboptimal debate not only about the benefits of profit sharing , but also about sharing information and decision-making authority with employees . by providing temporary tax relief , the us scheme would help companies offset the bureaucracy ’s cost of establishing a profit-sharing program . in order to curb costs and prevent abuses , profits totaling over 10 % at the top of a worker ’s pay would be ruled out ; the overall sum offered to individual firms is capped ; and safeguards against labor-sharing substitute limits on pay rates raises , and other levies will be established . at the same time , america ’s stagnant incomes are undermining the demand side economic growth ( by discouraging both household consumption ) and supply-side issues ( through discouraging home consumption ) ( through adverse educational effects , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally fighting corruption . and that message is straightforward : nobody is safe from prosecution , even though – like abyzov and irhayev – they have retired from public service , and no longer hold sway . most russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and authorities ’ credibility . in addition , selective repression of key figures has become impeded . but it is the message to russia ’s jolted elites that is more pertinent .
better indicators would reveal the highly adverse – and perhaps protracted – effect of the profound post-2008 slump on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been as enamored with austerity to reduce fiscal deficits but reduce national wealth , properly measured , even more . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , insight and policy in incheon , south korea , the group published its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . the new report emphasizes several topics , like trust , and insecurity , that were addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives , and by explores a few more , like inequality and sustainability , more profoundly . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . it has also encouraged a commission successor , high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress .
seventy-three years ago in the us , john maynard keynes thought about reforming and regulating financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moved toward … mak [ ing ] an investment big permanent and indissoluble , ” like marriage … . but he immediately drawn back : the fact that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid , ’ ( though this can not possibly be true of all our investors collectively ) calms ’s nerves , and make him far more willing to run the risks .... this is to this extent the extent to which we appear to have seemed frozen over time , over time , over the past generation or two whenever we have contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably dull and unspoiled to anyone who is totally exempt from the gambling instinct ; the whilst he has had to pay for that propensity to act the appropriate toll … ” so far , why , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , remains frozen in the us today . it is for these reasons that we seemed to be frozen for previous generations , or two whenever we have contemplated , on our system of financial regulation .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no us tariff on oil , and just a $ 0.5 per gallon of gasoline taxes . thus , foreign manufacturers can no longer compete when their cost is $ 1,05 per gallon below what america ’s manufacturers might expect . that contrasts sharply with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy , which american companies ( a huge proportion that go to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . massive subsidies mean that the u.s. has become the world ’s largest producer of ethanol . yet , despite this vast advantage , some foreign firms still can make it in the american market .
the results have not only created a conflict between american federal legislation and state legislation ; they also signal a shift in attitudes not displeased same-sex marriage . on other issues – notably , immigration , obama rejects sovereign claims of states ’ rights and insists on a federal body . the us congress ’s legal and political challenges implied by no lesser issue : marijuana remains the illicit us substance under american federal legislation , and the international conventions that america has enacted . moreover , the us remains deeply sensitive : while public-opinion polls in 2012 put a first-time majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement . just as important , it has been us president barack obama ’s reaction to both the colorado and washington of votes – both us states that he had won at his re-election bid .
the political upheavals of 1999-2000 bring about a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions have been mounting since houphouet ’s death and were aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . the result has been catastrophic for the most part because of the ethnic rivalries sharpened . on four million northerners , around four million northerners have been denied political involvement , or landholdings on the grounds that they are the descendants of neighboring countries ’ migrants . whatever else is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves little doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony .
in the long run , they probably also want the state to give political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and are exploiting the fact that schooling in europe is the responsibility of national governments , rather than brussels-based institutions . these governments are willing to establish an education system according to which the state alone decides which research fields are in need and nurture it . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a citizen right . political trustworthiness identifies who can teach and study what about a country and its past .
dubai – globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s just-completed geo-economics agenda , notes that interdependence , formerly an economic boon , has now become a threat as well . italy has left people everywhere , wealthy and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to bankrupt banks , from undereit to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . notwithstanding all of its undeniable benefits , it elapsed governance and governance problems that exposed the inequities of both national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions gave themselves a political backlash and the dangers of disaster on many fronts .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the notion of the country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china does need a new set of strategic principles , because the most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its crushing nature , but the fact that china has provided president mahinda rajapaska with both military supplies and diplomatic cover that he needed to prosecute war-crimes trials . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither an wherewithal , nor a willingness to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system , he has now proven its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside of its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” ” ” has been finished .
should france and gipsic target countries default , germany alone would lose around € 545 billion , almost half of the aggregate sum mentioned , given that the bundesbank has conducted most of the net disbursements in the name of gipsic countries , reflected in their targetbalances . germany has the greatest exposure by far among rescuing euro-zone crisis-stricken countries , thereby helping to ease austerity more than any other country . when alexander hamilton , the first american finance minister , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he believed that this would cement a new american nation . george soros underestimates the risks that debt mutualisation would pose for europe ’s future . but the nationalization of debts has evoked enormous moral-hazard effects , prompting states to borrow excessively .
beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus emerged as a growing threat . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus emerged as a growing threat . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus were dashed . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes or of “ superbugs , ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the resurgence of polio in nigeria , which had previously been declared polio-free . hong kong , looking back on 2016 , may not seem like much to celebrate .
this dynamic can be viewed in the trend toward bank consolidation and agencies that have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis , reducing access to services in low-income communities . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for bank and thrifts . but those mandates were discarded during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , when banks quickly moved away from low-cost financing services and into higher-profits activities . when it comes to banking conservation , these precedents and existing institutions point the way forward . history also reveals the us that financial-exclusion is a perennial problem whenever demands for universal services are absent .
by december 2016 , obama allowed the united nations security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel to be building a “ major barrier ” to a two-state solution . it is not difficult to see what palestinian negotiators had to feel as led by massive israeli settlements on the territories that they worked to include in an independent state . after all , the israeli government not only allowed the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist , but it also provided them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the united states congress that direct talks between israel and palestine went “ poof ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis on the west bank . this was not entirely lost on all of america ’s national leaders .
new haven : across europe and america , men in black tie and women in thatcherism and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and their glimmerglass . in the us , once again , state coffers are tapped to support these privileged retreats . perhaps , then again , it is also time for a moment to ask themselves a fundamental question : should the state continuing to ladle out of generous endowments in so an elite business ? consider the kind of incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholics , in the middle of the masses . does its grandeur mean the state should subsidize it ?
on defense and warfare , the unpredictability implies the possibility of youngsters dying into action . but foreign policy , as we have known it , is essentially a manifestation of a nation state or a superpower . this contrast underlines the fact that the eu ’s great achievements in integration have occurred in that no-man ’s – land that lies between total national independence and a total loss of sovereignty within a federation . as a result , it is not surprising that foreign-policy integration has made little headway . so , not surprisingly , it has made little progress on foreign policy integration .
lebanon often struggles to attract financing because of its status as a middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it fails to account for the serious structural vulnerabilities that pre-date the syrian crisis , or an overwhelming share of a resident population , consisting of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq , who live in inhumane poverty . without additional support from the international community , our vision wo n’t be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . the us faces a $ 100 million shortfall on new education year . i am thankful for us donors who have been with us since the start , but now we need additional international support . one thing i hope will become obvious at the oslo education summit is the need to assist middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict .
of course , part of the problem is that we make such resolutions that are not likely to do anything otherwise . so we use the new year ’s occasion to try to change behavior that is perhaps the most difficult one to make of change . what does this tell us about human nature , and our capacity to live , either overtly or ethically , ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make our resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do . so only asean would resolve to eat our ice cream at least one week , and only a workaholic will resolve to spend more time ahead of the television .
a second conclusion to be drawn from an status quo is that the fed has now overestimates america ’s strength in the american economy over 11 consecutive years . if every year of fed forecasting were “ coin toss , ” we would now hold 11 heads of state in a row and zero-tails . the odds that they will take place are one in 2,048 . elementary mathematics dictates that a credible prediction should at least overestimate half and undershoot half the time . clearly , the fed needs to take deeply into view its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes .
such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnosis . how high the percentages are supposed to be before claiming over-diagnosis is a major problem and the standard judgment . any study seeking to pinpoint whether or not psychiatric disorder is give way to a sort of condition that some of the patients with a condition do not have it upon re-interviews . but it is thought that over-diagnosis rates of over 50 % crosses a threshold of medical significance . the question , then , is not whether some patients were previously given a diagnosis that seems not to have it upon re-interview , but rather how many .
this time around , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis is a global one . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers are rallying around finding solutions , and some people are losing faith in an effective economic system on their own . indeed , during the great depression of the 1930s , it was commonplace for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . in many of the earlier banking crises , it was the countries or countries hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . policymakers will continue to throw off whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it takes time for deleveraging from the boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels to europe this year has not drawn as much attention as they should have , given being key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . in fact , bannon now wants to build a federation of euroskeptic parties in europe . as more countries transform themselves into a kind of “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common-denominator . by joining forces with the likes of french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an open proponent of russian president vladimir putin , bannon seems to have in mind a new kind of “ neo-nationalist ” international . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” first ” ideologue can pursue his very political project anywhere else in america .
one famous event at the end of the eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s the british imperial mission to the chinese imperial tribunal . diplomatic immunity through local prosecutions was an idea that sprang straight out of another incident , almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , comprising peter the great in london . macartney refused to conform to the chinese imperial protocol by a declining margin to the emperor , because he was not required to do the same to his own sovereign . this , too , was very much a case of “ keeping in face ” : a chinese anticipated tribute ; a british lord insisted on equal standing with his king . as a result , rather than more of its power , the mission broke down .
here is how arithmetic works for investor who rolls over ten-year bonds over ten-year bonds , earning 2 % more each year than it would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged for the next five years , and then rises , from about 2 % to about 5 % . during those five years , the investor earns an additional 2 % every year for a cumulative gain of 10 % . but when the interest rate on an annualized bond is rising to 5 % , the ten-year bond falls from $ 100 to $ 69 . if not , losses on bond prices would more than wipe out the supplemental interest that it has earned , even as rates remain unchanged for about five years .
only the world ’s own political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbons consumers can launch changes on a global scale . that decision would be directed not at individual mobility , but against the dissipation of a scarce resource that is more urgent in producing synthetic materials . change has to start with the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of existing oil consumption – a share that is likely to reprise the future . thus , the g-8 countries should agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards . the political leaders should not privilege any particular technology .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning the facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to care for china to task for supposedly “ ratifying ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now renewed his accusations that the country manipulates its currency so as to gain the edge of its exports . in contrast , over the past two and a half years , the people of the people of china ( pboc ) have intervening in currency markets to opposite purposes : to prevent the renminbi from falling too sharply against the dollar . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation never supports the facts . such statements are as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality .
new delhi – at the end of last month , when two india ’s states and national capital were held to ransom for rioting mobs protesting their spirituality while providing two counts of raping minor girls , many indians are finding themselves confronting several painful truths on their land . the leader who has incited such protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among a few “ godman , ” ” ” ” or self-aggrandizement of spiritual leaders who flourish across india . and he holds a reputation for being sexually active participants in his female followers at home and abroad . two of these followers mustered the crass of the courage to crack down on the charges . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurram rahim insan , a hindu compound , muslims and sikh names followed by the word for “ a man ’s ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu .
but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting more from reduced european exports to iran . to be sure , some imports would become more expensive to iran ; but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad certainly seems not to miss an opportunity to exploit unilateral actions for his propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological advances . precisely for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution even when its actions are already weaker than what the united states or the eu might impose unilaterally . on the contrary , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program , provided only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions .
none could have been more identified with the political elite than with abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of singapore ’s foreign minister . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics and journalists and intellectuals . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual “ elite , ” which was consciously seeking to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . his efforts to revise japan ’s myriad pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit the “ elitist ” mainstream media such as the left-of-of-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , made him the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , who referred to abe before trump . abe and his own allies are seeking to quash that influence .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources , not where they feel ’s pleasant work . as one ex-mining executive official in the region told me , “ the aim was always straightforward : get assets out of the ground and off the country as cheaply , and with as little fuss as possible . ” yet sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be as limited as possible . because the customer is abroad and there is very little processing it matters in a country , why should companies upgrade local capabilities or otherwise help the host economy ? securing high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping workforces happy and maintaining positive public image .
that created a huge windfall for homeowners , but hurt anyone planning to buy . the first big city to boom was london , starting around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming fairly far ever since ; prices in most of them are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now the growth of home prices is faltering in some of these cities .
after two and a half decades of market-driven economic reform , chinese citizens are increasingly recognizing how to safeguard their own economic and social interests through the collective use of rights . control also relies on the demography of internet users , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and make the internet more likely than serve as a tool of political or social revolutions . what is surprising is that the government ’s control mechanisms have been largely effective . the government employs a host of new legal rules , a shadowy internet police force , and a powerful hardware-up of the national information filtering system . but they are also spurring profound social change , rooted in rising rights consciousness within a society , something strengthened – and intensified – not only at the rate of economic growth , but at the rapid dissemination of the internet .
this european polity lacks a second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . as a result , nationally elected representatives have a responsibility to make crucial eu-level decisions . not a single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent european citizens ’ associated interests , because none has to compete for europe-wide public support . but , while the common european causes stem daily , they do not lack europe-wide political representation . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu .
though a president ’s many advisers might make a difference , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their abilities and institutions of expertise , rather than their own ability as economists . and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect the debate about each other ’s advisers or their intellectual influences . is there anything more , actually , that one can even ask of the us president ? obama originally had an oft-repeated team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , the austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . this time , too , not talking about any deep economic thinker or whatever particular economic model emerges .
they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they invariably seek to placate washington ’s preferences . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to america prevents eu members from turning decisively and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help to cement the commitment of arab states to a coalition against terrorism , just as provide useful shove to american diplomacy . in short , they will have to make their own work of working together to sustain common efforts . what this distinct aspiration might be , after all , is not hard to define . for another , they will need to make their own distinct bargains .
one reason for this is that low numbers of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult . earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was obscure but huge collections ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific type of genetic error – one that takes their place in cell machinery that is chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what causes the mutation that breeds these congenital disorders , and treatments exist for only a few . as a result , medical professionals frequently know very little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the prominent bidder . in time , this “ culture of corruption ” tends to permeate society . though corruption is reflected more in denmark than in ukraine alone , culture of corruption needs to be uprooted before conditions improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold .
by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing than is made available in israel , thereby solving one of the country ’s major economic problems for the middle class . in israel , obama encounters a country that has , in fact , moved , but not toward the missing center . “ red lines ” in israel are having a way of mutating along paths drawn in sanders , who are then remaining invisible at the slightest wind . the new government of the fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sobering interpretation . likewise , no one should expect a moratorium on settlement expansion at all .
at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s property-asset bubble burst , causing economic stagnation . as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total expenditure this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . despite japan ’s fiscal position ’s weakness , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , the country in what was called the “ lost decade . ” if the government continues on that path , many anticipate next year ’s ’s ’s budget deficit to widen further .
the mugabe ’s regime has committed outrage after outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold onto power ; fine-tune and assassinate supporters of the opposition movements for democratic change ; the transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once deemed africa ’s breadbasket to be a place in which more than half the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its attacks on everyday newsrooms , the suppression of the critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , especially those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . at the end of august , heads of state from thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power , met in dar salaam , tanzania , to consider daunting challenges ahead of them . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit , two dealt with zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with a degree of national politics , some 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . and the american constitution allows individual nation-states to function as what julia brandeis calls the labs of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . there is a long , rich history of successful experiments that took place . state and local governments were leaders in establish public primary-and lower-level education systems , like state colleges and universities . california , wyoming , and other us states allowed women to vote , an example that stimulated passage in the nineteenth amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) .
the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is the result of a sharp drop in commodity prices and painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in peripheral countries . in other words , price stability in the euro area reigns . europe must aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and the creation of competitive jobs . at the same time , only greece is currently having a slightly negative inflation rate . should higher nominal ( that is inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ?
the implication , then , is that speculators can drive prices and boost their inventories , even as total commercial inventories remain little changed . additionally , the oil-price collapse may have induced “ echo speculation , ” ” whereby ultimate users purchase refined products preemptively to shield against futures price hikes . as a result , record-high speculative prices probably caused bunker traders to release inventories , but these releases may have bought up speculators that are now active lessees the capacity of commercial storage . they then take delivery on their premises in order to ensure that overall refined inventories rise , but that increase is not part of their declared commercial inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always hard , because it tends to occur against background powerful fundamentals .
furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . if they seem to wish to survive well into the coming century , they are likely to have to have been subsumed under a union backed by a larger , more powerful , and far more established nation-state . furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . yet both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . such a state , whether exisiting de facto or widespread formal recognition , will have ever-lasting consequences across the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) .
we tend to think that new risk-management products like novel kinds of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily interest the very rich or at least the relatively affluent . good fortune and bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest are particularly vulnerable when adversity – like a hurricane on a fisheries hamless – strikes . at the same time , it is important to recognize that the world of ’s poorest people is not the same number of people from year to year . so at risk management , by smoothing bumps in income , can be exceptionally important in mitigating the effects of poverty . we tend to think that new risk-management products like novel kinds of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily interest the very rich or at least the most affluent .
that disconnect is nothing new ; by now , there have always been tsars and laborers , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , although he sometimes proclaimed allegiance to a hazy collective sense of a rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) , deprived – or free , it matters of view – russia of all collective life ; both the actual lives of shared hardship and the imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . indeed , even russia ’s uniformity is distinct nowadays . in novgorod , i have seen lukoil ( one of russia ’s big private oil companies ) gasoline stations . everyone nowadays deals with life and hardships individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform .
a new system , in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings , would minimize such competition , while mitigating the risks for destination and source countries . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for either side , shielding destination countries from at the expense of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting source countries from the costs implied by the loss of already talented staff . greater international cooperation would maximize the contributions of immigration , at least in the long run . but , beyond the potential benefits of cooperation to control illegal immigration , most countries , including the us and the united kingdom , are working to reform their own immigration laws unilaterally . they view collaboration as practicable , given the natural competition among destination and source countries for the most productive staff .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . viewed from the perspective of the austerity policies that many governments embraced , they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences . germany , europe ’s top-performing european country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years . every downturn , in time , eventually comes to an end . denmark is a good policy mark that it succeeds in making the shallower downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been .
warsaw – twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as pope . here , a prominent writer said , “ poland ’s second christchurch baptism . ” some were agitated , others wept at pleasure . here , a prominent writer , was “ poland ’s second christendom . ” twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as pope .
while hong kong ’s courts surely could have settled the matter on their own , within the framework of the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system except its right to elect its own legislature , an enraged china intervened . as part of an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ make clear ” article 104 of its basel law , declaring that all oaths taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , exact , and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred from taking their seats at the legislative council . to the majority of hong kong ’s lawyers , the display of political authority was not simply a reinterpretation of the old rules , but a move toward making new ones . restraint , after all , is not some kind of leninist virtue .
reebok , the multinational sportswear company , advertises its corporate code as “ founded on core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . corporation markets its soccer balls and other goods with “ guaranteed ” : manufactured without a child labor ” label . prodded by groups like the workers right consortium and the un ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to settle living wages , open up their factories to monitors , and even give workers a voice in the workplace . but the sensitivity of human rights has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline . the international labor organization reports that the unions are back in most nations .
indeed , responsible sourcing is a duty , not a choice ; it is an option . the securities and exchange commission requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these raw materials ’ point of view , as well as easing risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the united nations has already taken the next logical step in this direction . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed themselves to similar mandatory due-diligence requirements . that is , as it should be .
most of their productive and financial assets are state-owned by foreign companies , just as most of the rules governing their economies have been imposed by the eu . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to assert themselves that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right in their hands , enabling orbán and his fidesz party to declare any move toward an ever-closer union and strengthening of the federal authority and legitimacy . they conclude that they can have both ways , keeping the benefits of economic integration , without losing their ability to infringe on their citizens ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ rights , or resorting to eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their hold over the state . the truth , however , is that the cee countries have little to lose from the path of sovereign sovereignty .
one concern among the critics is that the shift toward a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to profit-seeking behavior by bankers and traders , whose shortcomings have helped to trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . indeed , profound , pervasive market failures – in relation to carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating ecological and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and socioeconomic equity . that is why the link to governance and institutions at rio +20 is just as crucial today as the transition to a green economy : markets are human constructs that require rules and institutions to guide not just their direction , but also their limits . as the un ’s recently released report on a green economy : pathways to sustainable-development and poverty eradication ” demonstrate , market-economy as currently constituted has resulted in unprecedented misallocation of capital . one concern among the critics is that the transition to a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to profit-seeking behavior by bankers and traders , whose shortcomings have helped to trigger financial and economic turmoil throughout the last four years .
third , as usual with israel , hamas has charged with anti-semitism those who dared to criticize its disproportionate reaction against hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment of the palestinians . a italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately to use the language of holocaust deniers . coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza has come in the same week that an american clutch of most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers published books on how the task should be properly tackled . by this standard , is my inimical critique of hamas ’ rocket attacks turning me into an islamophobe ? all have sounded a little like multiple apps – a war for president barack obama ’s ear .
but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has steadily played on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . a similar political imperative lies at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism , which has made a precipitous return to public life in sri lanka . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by the sri lanka coalition ’s center-left democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s snap presidential election , an outcome that he then sought to annul , was supposed to end both his own career and race-baiting politics . the sinhalese ’s religious and inter-ethnic passions have been emboldened during the duma , a bloody push that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but the one-time president is now mounting a enraged comeback , and perhaps well triumph of a parliamentary election scheduled on august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become truly goals of terrorists , who see education as a threat . schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need the un ’s security plan to ensure their pupils ’ safety and provide faith to their parents and their communities . these attacks reveal with stark clarity that provides an education is not just about blackboards , books , and curricula . ( indeed , boko haram has been literally translated to mean that “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) in at least 30 countries , there is a concerted pattern of assaults by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria the worst affected .
modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , unilever , and unilever – are developing innovative approaches to recruiting refugees . some , like citi , are empowering companies to hire refugees , and to integrate them into the supply chains where they live . some globally , like mozambique , are empowering companies to hire refugees and integrate them into supply chains where they live .
next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will convene in sharm el sheikh , egypt for the fourteenth-century meeting of the parties ’ conference for biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) in biological diversity ( the un conference ) . while there , they will consider asking whether to give brakes on gene drives , ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before such technologies are unleashed within their communities . that is why it is increasingly being turned off in favor of a agro-ecological model based on the principles of “ food sovereignty . ” the latter , endorsed by the un human rights council , are calling upon farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies just as much as the rights of farmers worldwide .
buying up time to secure a healthy political future , venezuelan officials have been carefully stage-managed by chávez ’s ill health and eventual death , even suggesting near terminal decline , while using complex and agonizing treatment cancer treatments to remain “ walking ” and exercising it . an information vacuum has been reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , as well as practicing in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan known to be kept a secret for weeks , until the succession was established . the mise-en-scene emotional manipulation surrounding chávez ’s ’s ’s ’s death seems certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will this suffice to shape the chávista lineage ? it is not exactly clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was in fact dead before his passing was officially announced .
at the same time , governments in advanced countries have a role to play in affecting the character of technological innovation . such policies are unlikely to make much of a difference in developing countries . for them , a major barrier will remain that existing technologies make it possible to maintain sufficient factor substitution room : by exploiting unskilled labor , rather than physical capital . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technology , rather than pushing innovations on socially more beneficial track , to augment rather than substitute less-skilled workforce . the demands of quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not be easily met by replacing the services-led machines .
berkeley – on june 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will occupy almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority , whose parliamentarians won 13 million fewer votes than their fellow democratic opponents . trump will also embark on his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . alone , the republican majority in the house of representatives , headed by speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent a numerical majority of the 55 % of americans who voted in the 2016 election day . trump will also embark on his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . this is an unprecedented – or unpresidented , ” ” ” ” ” as one of his seminal tweets put it ( before eliminating it ) , in the history of such ratings .
in turkey ’s view , its western partners failed to do enough , through technology transfer and joint-manufacturing schemes to accommodate its burgeoning defense industries . by contrast , the chinese , and to a lesser extent , russia ’s firms were more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict . the s-400 disputes are merely the latest example of how eu military procurement matters have generated a rift between turkey and its western allies . in contrast , the chinese , and to a lesser extent russian firms , have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in syria ’s conflict . and domestic deflationary interests , they are only part of the story .
underdevelopment in many southern countries that are faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world , creating conditions of desperate poverty , ecological breakdowns , and rootless , the unemployed populations beyond atrophoned state systems . this is not to say that our responses to the perils emerging from past legacies will have to be rooted in the past . the us will not create a better world by age 21 by forgetting what happened in the 19th and much of the twentieth century . as the us plays into the still-new millennium , though , it looks ironically enough : the potential disorder in tomorrow could be due in no small part to yesterday ’s colonial order . more needs are needed than ever before for innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance .
in bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · a multiethnic and multinational jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see the unthreatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · expanded nato-russian theater-level bmd exercises , which are building on earlier collaboration , have been eroded by russia since august 2008 , and that factoring in nato and russian forces can jointly defend against rocket threats ; · an underlying legal framework to underpin these and other cooperative projects . · a united nations study on how nato might influence russia ’s nuclear deterrent and what steps can be taken to minimize possible problems ;
while the us tax package that trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and helps the us economy grow , government revenues have yet to respond much in this way of generating growth . under these conditions , trump , ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals are likely to run into budget constraints . his administration and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and fight growth with medicaid spending have so far been unsuccessful . and a temporary increase in defense spending will revert once again to a shortage of investment , following that fiscal year . now he has ruled out any social-security changes .
granting observer-state status to palestine would effectively remove the table the prospect of a “ one state ” – one that has lately been gaining momentum among experts . but these sound reasons to support palestine ’s bid most likely will not prevent the eu from delivering splits ; the reverberations not only throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy ; and hinders european attempts to reset relations with countries across the middle east and north africa . indeed , europe ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record of achieving foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always encouraged a two-state solution , despite its challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve the jewish state ’s identity . a split vote in such a way undermines europe ’s national interests , delivering a unequivocal wound on europe ’s foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment .
moreover , in countries in which google is criticized for blocking access to information , it points to information ’s absence when something is blocked , by making people aware that it exists but can not be given access to it . rather than demand for an end to censorship now – an impossible dream , google is working to make that happen by eroding government control of information . with google , people are starting to expect answers to all of them . on the other hand , every time someone in china gogles things and get the answer , google is working to make that stuff by eroding government control of information . in addition , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it points to information ’s absence as something blocked , allowing people to know that it exists but that they can not gain access .
while none of the outcome was formally agreed or made public , several themes emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , agreed unanimously by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereign states hold the responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide ; ethnic cleansing ; crimes against humanity ; and war crimes ; that second states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that if a state is “ irresolute ” to protect its own people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and resolute actions , ” which might occur in the context of military action if approved by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that r2p enterprise as a whole – particularly its penalties for military action in exceptional cases – is just “ “ old neo-interventionist wine ” in a new bottle . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it can reinvigorate an international consensus , so long missed in syria , about how to cope with the hardest mass-atrocity cases .
by focusing on these problems , i am not attempting to belittle globalization ’s benefits . but there is no shortage of global capitalism ; we just need to understand these better if we want the system to survive . global integration has brought enormous rewards : the international division of labor that is so blatantly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic gains like economies of scale and the rapid spread of innovations from one country to another that are less easy to demonstrate through the static theory of equilibrium ; and noneconomic utility , such as the free choice that comes with an international movement of goods , capital and people , as well as the freedom of choice attached to an international movement of ideas . these benefit , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent effort to correct and contain the system ’s shortcomings . so the global economy should , indeed , be thinking like the global capitalist system .
mueller explained that a controversial us justice department policy aimed at helping president richard nixon , bars impeachment by a sitting president . that ’s not , at least , is the us constitution ; it ’s a law . trump has been portraying the report as wholly exonerating it ( through “ noncollusion , no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , even though the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . worse for trump , a widely admired mueller in effect has recommended that the us congress commit to an impeachment trial . ( nixon has been an unindicted co-conspirator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in the new york times involving his pre-election participation to silence two men with whom he had sex liaisons soon after the birth of his son , barron . )
indeed , russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping forces ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia of other secession-minded region , have been protected by its rebel governments in fact . russia has also been enforcing a full georgian trade embargo in hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent its own country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only carry the risk of open-ended warfare with russia , but strain ties with armenia as somehow far as 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the breakaway government there . another risk at the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
on that front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a stand-alone eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister accountable to him , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of parliamentarians from the european commission and national parliamentarians ) to hold a finance minister accountable . beyond working with finland , the new government , in its current form , seems unlikely . europe needs to make progress on its first opportunity , if it is to seize the second , and that means reinvigorating the eurozone . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to endorse macron ’s proposals in their current form . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a stand-alone eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister accountable to him , and a eurozone parliament ( comprising parliamentarians from the european commission and national parliamentarians ) to hold a finance minister accountable .
moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . the financial crisis has also driven some european , african , and asian governments to establish ndbs and other countries to make theirs more efficient . today , they form an important feature of most advanced , middle-income countries ’ financial-sector sectors , notably china , germany , india , and south korea . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . and large ndbs can have a large impact , particularly in emerging economies .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as i highlighted earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would , in effect , resolve one big issue – the culmination of britain ’s us diplomacy service – by creating a much bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
as many commentators have pointed out from islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks strikingly like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 ; when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s reversal of its support for the “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . more broadly , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy working . if the choices for islamists remain bullets or ballots , the bullets might now look more promising . so what should america and other governments that supported liberal democracy do now ? the answer might influence egypt ’s political future , and that of the entire region .
yet the world continues to underestimate frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions . this not only undermines their capacity to deliver effective jobs ; it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . for example , in the early 2000s , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to take the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools such as bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , between 2000 and 2015 , the incidence of malaria fell by more than 75 % . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and espionage on muslims .
the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitics : bringing the ex-soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . once the would-be “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served as neither a military nor an ideological purpose . moreover , nato not only enlarged its eu membership , but also transformed itself from the anti-communist defensive alliance into the offensive grouping ( with the operations of yugoslavia , libya , iraq , and afghanistan ) . initially , nato ’s ’s new members were declared that they had fulfilled both democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began to invite even the most backward and corrupt nato states to join .
perhaps this proximity was at root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its pal-nose . normally , the fund expects that problems originate at the usual suspects , in economically volatile developing countries , but this time the crisis was unfolding a few miles off its headquarters . thus , in search of the imf ’s causes for failures , we can rule out a distraction on more pressing matters . if so , it represents a failure that raises two key questions . ironically , this has led the imf to focus on its supervisory role .
it is this concrete , “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , which is vital to understanding the french position toward libya . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on the ground in libya , then it is the un that gave the needed green light to the french action there . indeed , france and the un , which led the country in opposition to intervention in iraq in 2003 , have now pressured france to intervene in libya in 2011 . at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived as america by europeans and europeans ( that is , rather than american ) by the average american citizen . it is a shift that raises a major question : if those who are willing and able to act have demonstrated incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” what will happen to global stability , unless those able are also willing to step in ?
but if that lesson was really a lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) were forced to lie intentionally to try to hide it . if an official encounters with a lobbyist and is n’t ashamed , he can simply have to say so . in both countries , voters can make their own judgments , while doing so helps to do so . and , if official encounters fall mostly with lobbyists , to the detriment of other types of meeting them , voters can make judgments on this , too . to be sure , there is no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we can hope to reset norms .
and there is a risk that the tech giants will use their own vast armies of programmers to develop practically identical goods and their vast legal resources to defend it . it is notable that big tech still has most of its revenues from its companies ’ core products , such as the apple iphone , microsoft office , and google search engine . amazon tech firms might argue that all of the capital that flowing into new products and services is pushing innovation . in practice , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely to be buried as nourished . one suspects , however , that in many circumstances is nip potential competition in the bud .
in rajaratnam ’s case , the ability to establish such a link has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both state and federal attorney general rod generals favored prosecuting “ occasional ” merchants sitting out of thumb . for example , when a tiny italian firm received someone who never traded a big ranking for the shares of america ’s shoe soon before the company was picked up by an italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard to odinga fish . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person is making hundreds of trades every day . elsewhere , precisely because occasional traders trade rarely , it is far easier to prove the nexus of causality among their trades and illicit tipping points .
yet barely a third of young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv , another reason for compelling and comprehensive sexuality education . in the meantime , roughly 90 % of the world population and children with hiv live in africa ; and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still exceed twice as likely as teenage boys to carry the virus to death . likewise , around 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still exceed twice as likely as teenage boys to carry the virus . violence is used as a tactic of war , not to mention violence . yet another epidemic has killed african women , all too often perpetrated with impunity .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . this may be true , or even in most of the world , of the past . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can alter history ’s course . the actions and choices of one man or woman , regardless of how powerful they may be , can not determine nations ’ destiny . that has certainly been true in russia , and perhaps soon turns out to be true in turkey as well .
figueres suggested that the paris agreement would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ºc . this might seem surprising : we continually hear how every country made important commitments to cut carbon emissions – the so-called nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) , ” or indcs . as i demonstrate in a new way , even if successful , the paris accord that is reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by a mere 0.05 ºc . according to un climate chief christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the power to limit prediction temperatures to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 ” by not implying enough but lots below the projected four , five , or even many warming degrees projected by many previous pastures . sea-level rises , according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , the indcs have the power to limit forecast temperature rises to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 , absent the intended four , five , or more degrees of the warming projected by many , each .
meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policies or institutional reforms in the near-term , for fear that doing so might adversely affect the outcome of this year ’s consequential election in the netherlands , france , germany , and possibly italy . an alternative vision holds , of course , that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward more integration and growth-oriented policies . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order while simultaneously implementing eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current systems imposes too many constraints and contains too few effective adjustment mechanisms . anti-european political forces are clearly making electoral inroads and will continue to gain the ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high .
russia realized that they did n’t have to win at all costs ; things could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . likewise , navalny himself could n’t attend the event , after being arrested for a previous un-sanctioned demonstration . then came the pension reform , spurring a string of protests that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure while questioning the role of russia ’s people . and on september 9 while local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests , organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” ” on election days . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the population had said they were prepared to protest further .
by the time europe and china crossed the road in 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , so compelled china to engage in a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . change , however , did not come smooth . china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions . china squandered its economic and technological potential on its own , not because of outside powers . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 , under external pressures and internal demands for change .
where land today is cheap , that will have huge value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning and creating a whole city there . private developers have difficulty getting a big plot free of constraints . but they tend to become ingenious at developing glamorous new zones from little towns within the hour ’s commute from the major cities . these cities ’ apparent success , as both their government and economic centers , attests to the strength of urban land from the presence of a well-planned city there . true , establishing such cities is a comparatively rare occurrence .
so far , the venezuelan elite and a large part of the investment community have projected the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no possibility , just badmouthing . it can last for awhile , but creates increasing friction with economic reportage and a growing incentive for chavez to be authoritarian . if he goes statist/populist , 2001 will be a crisis year . so far , the venezuelan elite and a large part of the investment community have projected the worst and behaved accordingly : no chavez ’s future . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , then a path for growth and stability will occur .
its average budget surplus since the cycle started is around 0.8 % of gdp . enormous surpluses , in the three years since 1999 , far outweigh the formal deficits forecast for the coming two years . this means that the us treasury expects the average surplus from 1979-2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ended , enabling brown ’s strictures to meet . but , more than independent forecasters seem to be more pessimistic about the issue . growth is forecast to return above trend by a 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to a standstill .
in the process , we might understand that we vote because it is what citizens ought to make , and excel at our jobs because we strive for respect and self-realization , not merely uplifting . yet , as georgia ’s price demonstrated long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least on behalf of the peoples that we perceive as members of a group that we call “ us . ” a new revolution in economics can find space for strategies that are based on affecting ideals and identity , not just taxes and grants . instead , strategies have originated from the view that all our behaviors are more selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that , too , has been recognized with nobel prizes as well . if successful , the new revolution may have led to strategies that make us all more responsive to our fellow angels .
of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own , and it is no panacea for our many social and political ills ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as a disincentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and for running the rule of law . nato fixes tough limits on local political elites ’ autonomy to do the things they please . the more tightly tied eu to a country like romania is ; the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or to eviscerate its democratic system . such openly thuggish rulers , in the form of ukraine or the lukashenka of belarus , are nearly impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subordinating romania ’s military and intelligence services within the context of nato ’s command ( that is , american ) control , thereby any attempt to erect a coup , or stirring trouble between the romanian public and us sizeable hungarian minority , can be avoided .
the puzzle is why neither compelling , self-destructive logic in autocratic rule , nor mounting evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china , have convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule nowadays is a distinct possibility . an obvious explanation stems from the power of conventional thinking . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet-era communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically treated as invulnerable , even just before they collapse . that is the underlying anti-corruption dynamic in china today . in fact , the consequences of leadership degeneration are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , mounting social tensions , and loss of governmental credibility .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining its room and , instead , to use a chamber pot that he had brought to power in china . perhaps he was suspicious that stalin , as a bbc official put it last year , was picking up and analyzing his feces to glean information about big pluck ’s temperament . but there is a point worth coming about recent behavior . some readers may say that the granddaughter of nikita khrushchev , who falsely said , gaveled at his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . when it comes to taking diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ”
that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” or loyalists who stand for the kremlin-backed change , wish to check the protest movements and use it as a lever in the ultimate struggle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . indeed , a potential inheritors today need legitimacy not only from the powerful oligarchs but also from the street . group liberals believe that russia has , in the whole , built an acceptable market economy . its next development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . until recently , loyalist loyalists have argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing a government that should somehow be influenced through constructive suggestions .
my office is paying maximum attention to chechnya , even though this is no easy feat from moscow . my office has worked closely with the us state to assure that , in most cases , juries are used . similarly , my own office defended the liberal daycare paper , novoya ( new times ) , pressured moscow municipal governments on the pretext of commercial lease dispute . that fight is not over , but after my intervention , moscow 's authorities must take into account the public 's negative attitude toward their attempts to quash this publication . somehow , of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights problems , such as the low-grade war in chechnya , or the yukos affair .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has focused on its growing commercial muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and expanding the capacity to project us military power . but one critical issue typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon , with no modern historical parallel . no other country has ever succeeded in assuming such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent by controlling multi-transnational river headwaters and manipulating their cross-border river flows . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed after its communist victory in 1949 . china , the world ’s largest dam builder at the time , with slightly more than half of the 10 dams on the planet , is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors through the establishment of massive , hydro-engineering trans-boundary projects .
as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , for minimum , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . the fact that financial institutions have run out of relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . they run persistent risks to economic stability , without providing a compensating advantage in terms of increased investment in productive activities . in the us , holding disaster elections rather than weekends or holiday season or holiday delivered in conjunction with restrictive registration regulations , gerrymandering , as well as myriad other electoral rules , places ordinary workers at significant disadvantage . as the failures of financial-market regulation suggest , important as such economic reform is , they must be complemented with measures that redress the asymmetry of the political approach .
serious appearances back to 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house lawn are revealing . leaders from the global superpowers , united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace . for israel , an occupying power , whose peoples enjoy a democratic national authority and gdp tens of times that of the people it denies with basic rights of liberty and independence , photo opportunities provided by meeting and greeting palestinian leaders have replaced achieving peace . indeed , the number of illicit jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas occupied by israel in 1967 . negotiators have parsed every possible solution to the permanent-status issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic ties .
in other words , the export miracle was sparked , not by state-sponsored chinese firms but " offshore efficiency solutions " crafted by the west . this , in turn , led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china – them or the us ? in personal relations , denial has tends to mask imbalances , but only for so long . ultimately , denial rifts and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame , holding a codependent partner responsible for the problems of one ’s own making . like america and china , such is the case .
as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of a curry favor ; we need just additional spices from major players – india , europe , brazil , and china – either . these can be provided in politically palatable ways , too , which also implies a conclusion of doha is within the us rather than beyond the us . if doha fails , some of us say , life itself will go on . but why bother with trying ? that is true , of course , but that does n’t make this point less naive .
given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable and structured relationship with its government has become a priority . at the same time , the eu has suddenly awoken to the need for a common external , energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . in turn , it has staked its claim on economic causes that its country needs the eu ’s backing , and that can no longer depend solely on russia without paying a heavy political price . but a thaw in eu-belarus needs reciprocal , sustained steps . after all , no european strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic drop of its natural capital . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented rate , from 11:100 to 1,000 times the natural extinction rate . in the developing world , however , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , protecting a fragile environment rarely makes it a national priority . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer deterioration of their natural environment . the planet is located in the developing world ’s most vulnerable ecosystems , and consequently depends on some parts of the world ’s neediest communities for preservation .
africa has an exceptionally rich portfolio of clean-energy assets , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than enough to satisfy the continent ’s ’s ’s ’s future demand . for example , utility-scale solar photovoltaic solar energy in africa fell by more than 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to plummet today . at the same time , electrility-renewable-energy sources are becoming significantly less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent power producer procurement program has viewed the overall decline in bid prices and overhauling ption rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a european staple , whether the narrative of an illegal , malian immigrant , scaling up paris , to save a toddler , or establish a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . since the brexit vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged with similar distortions , warning that once it leaves the european union , the uk will face skills shortages . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote has fueled in part false and distorted claims , such as that created by unrestrained migration from the rest of europe , driving down wages . but with plenty of countries like australia , canada , and singapore working to do just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries , enlisting skills-matching visas . and yet , despite ongoing coverage in the issue , or , more probably , precisely because of it does , the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; but we do need to recognize its limitations . that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; on the contrary , we do need to recognize its limitations . the gdp problem is not that it ’s a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional concerns ) , but rather that it ’s incomplete . most medical professionals will soon have a digital assistant to offer diagnoses ( specifically , particular cancers , diabetic retinopathy , as well as other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . looking ahead , the same cost-system-structure promise big increases in many areas of well-being .
major changes in india ’s social composition , headed by politicians and bureaucrats since independence , are actually proof of democracy at work . yet , many lament that the country ’s poor performance in the universal world also offers little cause for celebration . though psephological studies in the united states have shown that not everyone votes at substantial figures ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the reverse is true in india . studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , while the educated middle east has turned out in the numbers well below it . in india , what makes the region ’s poor are those who take the time to line on a hot sun is convinced that their votes would make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers would do little to influence the outcome , have stayed home .
first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy ’s two remarkable spokespersons for his candidacy . it is undeniably a grand “ show ” with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a surprising plot twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou will now have to be taken seriously . after all , should we really be watching the french presidential campaign hand in hand with its admiration or alarm ? or perhaps a little two ?
but that may be about to change in reaction to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the us rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states that might challenge one of the cornerstones of its multilateral trading system : the “ “ “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges granted to a single country within a trade pact must be broadened to all wto members . here , japan is acting again “ voluntary , ” ” ” ” under intense us pressure . according to print news , trump has posed japan with its stark choice : opening its ( very protected ) market-clearing to american agricultural exports or facing increased american tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s ’s agricultural market would thus appear to have thrown trump on national-security concerns over imported toyotas and hondas , justification that allows him to circumvent wto rules with its tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth stoked by fiscal constraints and soaring interest rates . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rates are not very high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force demands soaring job creation rates . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch socio-political model – countries that are too different to do so . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and exploit his trade unions , as well as his rapport with the working class , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become a latin american economic powerhouse . emulating the dutch experience with job-creation puts the surest way to alleviate poverty in brazil .
nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functions for democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ think that simply put up in a physical place does big , ” ” ” ” an appropriate response would have been : “ actually , occupying public spaces can make a big difference , depending on who ’s occupiers are and how many of them ” ” . hence , america ’s civil-rights marchers during the 1950 ’s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ” consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who assembled around times more twitter followers than a national rifle association nearly overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gunship regulation and their resistance against the american gun lobby .
the favored explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , via incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver on what he promised . nor has there been any across-the-board import tariff . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than predicting future trends . so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s ’s decline over the last year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement emerged .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . to me , this view of things explains far better than the orthodox account , why , for all the money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again and the economic recovery was petered out . to be sure , some worry about a collapse in household savings rates , but few were overly concerned . just as lenders did not force money relative to the public prior to the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek credit to expand production when markets are flat or shrinking . in one of its recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays take houses .
by contrast , the current alp government has struggled , until now , to create anything as compelling . but there seem to be some crucial rules of political survival that were ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling them out can help both the alp and others keep in mind . the first rule is to have a form of philosophy . the tremendously successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have done just that , in essence , inventing the “ third way ” model that later came with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements have been explicit : dry , free-market economics ( while in the us , low-paid workers benefit enormously from “ social pay ” to raise medical care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and liberal , internationalist foreign policies .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs an enviable private sector – ngos , church groups , and companies – that will be up to the job of establishing and integrating more than one million asylum-seekers every year . this will require not just enough funding , but also human beings and the capacity to match migrants and their sponsors . the exodus from a war-torn syria was never supposed to turn itself into a crisis . a long way out of the makes , easy to foresee and eminently manageable in both europe and the international community . this will never be a fifth piece of a comprehensive plan .
with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller proportion of output will become affordable for household consumption . a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and state-owned oil companies ’ stock declines . beyond this perspective , the problem does not originate from using a price instrument . it would be the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old-school , inefficient gadgets , and additional investment in a way that becomes less carbon-intensive . in addition , the distributional effects of the green transition are in fact unfortunately adverse .
but it also represents an opportunity for the eu to forge a new uk-eu partnership . owing to the withdrawal agreement that was concluded this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been averted . since the start of the brexit negotiations , the us on the eu , both the eu , the eu ’s 27 member states , and the european parliament , has neither strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , nor lost sight of the need for national unity and solidarity . our priority came first and foremost from securing the rights of europe ’s citizens , including by finding solutions for the people of northern ireland and northern ireland , for whom the debate was about peace and stability , rather than just business and economic . at the same time , things might have been far worse .
a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , got his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ” and nothing attenuated the tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming power . such was the existentialist worldview of america ’s president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent american expansionism advocate : “ just war is , in the long run , vastly better for a man ’s soul than the most prosperous peace process . ” the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade that has lasted for many more years .
so fundamental is the changes in the kingdom ’s strategic interests that , despite being custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , all said when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . they also appear to be superseding religion within israel . but today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is saudi arabia ’s final worries . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to seize europe ’s wider economic space but also to confront tough competition in global markets . in france , big strategic players are playing out along the banks and fashion ; italy is seeing its major players position on the european and global scale . no one can say how deep the changes will go , or how fast they shift europe into a speedier lane . no day passes without major headlines in europe ’s big mergers ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations perform mani ’s services . in sum , the old continent is hot .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . the eu was right to have reacted decisively to safeguard european stability by granting short-term assistance to greece and establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism . but all european governments need to show their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore markets ’ confidence – as well as to their own citizens . recent studies show that once a government ’s debt burden reaches a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . greece ’s debt crisis was an obvious warning that european policymakers must not let public debt peak indefinitely .
in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as in marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” ” ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalties were suspect . it is the type of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or also to financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine true sons and daughters of ngos . to present-day prewar fascists , america was often seen as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . it is the type of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or of financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undercut true sons and daughters of the nation-state . but stalin did not come up with this idea alone .
but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind its attacks on an american consulate ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . it should go beyond the us constitution rather than an article for a referendum . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but a underlying ideological trend underlying the core belief that armed tactics of all sorts are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – way of bringing about social and political change . just as they should not come near the shariah .
in any case , israel now appears to have dropped the charade . the number of israelis living in arms virtually jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel . in london earlier this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from press around about his support for a two-state solution . recently , he said that his ultimate objective is for the palestinians to have a palestinian state minus ” that limits in size and sovereignty . their hope no doubt dwindled further when they see the bulldozers came to prepare their way for new settlements , not an uncommon occurrence .
structural change to economies that had experienced a sharp drop in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now must be rendered more rapid , depressed , and without the luxury of currency devaluation . the pro-european case foundation was in part the promise of near-upward prosperity . the pain that this policies created was exposed in protests across the continent and in its bitter impact on many struggling families , young and middle-aged . at the current level , that promise is severely in question . europe ’s design flaw , an economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics , has now become manifest .
the problem after all lies not with east germany but rather with the west . unification meant somebody gains not only from western german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously adverse institutions : trade unions , overpaid unemployment , and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . if west germany rolled back all of these unaffordable constraints to freewheeling markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more almost full employment , a drive towards greater productivity would have made the drive to grow much more aggressive . to be sure , german corporatism did not permit this solution : union unions wanted their pay protected . the only way out of security was for the government to pay lots of unemployment compensation in high-paying eastern germany .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice premier , shaul mofaz , has offered an unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east ’s peace process . mofaz ’s declaration is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted not only in the middle east , but also in the united states as well . that notion is of a hegemonic iran that attempts to dominate the region through a series of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and , finally , from iran to the saudi-arabia to yemen , it is said , just another indication of iran ’s hegemonic reach . any return to the shiite-shia position to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s part and thus not only would be politically naïve but irrational .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , controlling the house of representatives and ( a filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything that they wanted in 2009 – and so it did . obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that was poorly aligned with key democratic constituencies like environmentalists and civil servants ; enacted a sweeping , high-unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be decided by the us supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new legislation on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain companies of special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels far exceeded only in world war ii ; and were centralized washington , and the us federal reserve ) . the latest election that followed such a sweeping change of policy direction in the 1980 ’s occurred , when us president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , expenditure and regulation and encouraged the us federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . while the election of 1988 , in 1992 and the 2000 ’s also seemed fairly consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as large as they were in 1980 and 2008 . stanford – successful us political candidates trying to enact the proposals on which they started .
opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and " non-democratic " nature of the wto , as well as the influence of corporate interests at rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , environmental , and consumer security . indeed , developing countries complain about the restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) and the fear that the new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . in any case , all sides agree that the stability of the international economy is predicated on a system of global rules . what is disputed is the nature of these rules .
most importantly , unlike in most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for over 60 % of its gdp with tourism leading the way . but , having fought for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob says , namibia has to defend the freedoms it has won . beyond that , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from the demands of favors from the corporate and other interest groups . indeed , not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the governments work hard to maintain and enhance their presence .
gordon ’s vulnerability is his shortened time horizon of ir # 3 . · “ both the first two revolutions required around 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the state . ” · “ “ at a low level , it took 150 years for ir # 1 ” to have their full range of effects . · “ “ “ “ the inventions of ir # 2 ” were so important … that they took the full 100 years to have their primary effect . ” consider the following four phrases in his paper :
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to the inflows , which will inevitably drive their exchange rates sharply higher , endangering export-led growth . the first alternative is doing nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . that may be the right response if the inflow and upward exchange-rate pressures are driven by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but in many cases , inflows are driven by short-run factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that can lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export industries or import-competing industries , a loss of competitiveness , and , eventually , massive current-account deficits and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is intervening aggressively to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
if the labor-force participation rate were 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it was in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would have just risen above 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . plunging debt service largely meant outgrowth in the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the stock of debt remains excess , us consumers will dismiss reduced interest-rate expenses as nothing more than a temporary fed subsidy . add to that the downward trend in unemployment largely reflects grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery .
the countries confronting fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and the us , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive , the european union . upon assuming office , he has delegating budgetary forecasts to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) in order to forfeit any sleight-of-hand opportunity . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically-adjusted deficit to 1.5 % of gdp this year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but , while he likes to raise her voice , he is acting with prudence : today , ’s germany ’s fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the fundamental features of egypt ’s peace with israel . other great and autonomous countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have endured decades of limitations on their acquisition of certain arms and military facilities . what sense would it make to return millions of palestinians to a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where a majority belongs to another ethnic group ? similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees to claim a right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just . are they pulling back to the homes and farms that no longer exist ?
the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign appeal to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as the prime example of desolate right-wing populism anywhere in the country . indeed , in austria , voters will choose between a pro- and right-wing candidate in le pen ’s right-wing freedom party , jean-marie le pen , the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . renzi ’s proposed reforms would include , among other things , modernizing italy ’s political system through disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . a victory by hofer might add wind to le pen ’s sails . among other things , berlusconi has modified italy ’s political system to the extent that it can prevent the left from ever regaining full power once again , by blocking any criminal charges against him .
would a truly self-confident ruling elite have become so skittish about its activism ? still , it is important to remember that there is some positive aspect to party ’s self-confidence . as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some native protestors , rather than treating all forms of collective action as subversive , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of insecurity . conversely , some of china ’s most disquieting moves can be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the gadfly critic liu xiaobao , who sentenced to 11 years in jail on trumped-up “ subversion ” charges for launching an “ internet petition ” that championing ” civil liberties .
anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade , by keeping it at lower cost . within the advanced countries , concerns about such behavior have long been raised -- so-called “ predation '' -- with well-defined norms . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such principles into the international arena , making it meaningless whether the producer is both domestic or foreign -- when judging whether it is committed to an unfair practice of trade . yet debates about competition and fair trade negotiations expose the intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations . but it makes the difference whether good is produced at home or abroad .
but start treaty ratification goes nowhere fast in the american senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty banning producing fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deterring treaty walk-outs ; reaching an agreement on some form of international leadership on the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and starting all the way forward – involving some form of international leadership of the most mutually sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and starting all the beginning of new rounds involving not only the nuclear-armed states . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous , entrepreneurship that yields few fast returns . with domestic issues and the reelection anxieties now dominating most of our political agendas , this will all be too easy for the commitment to wane . if this is to be avoided , continued leadership from the top , – above all by obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – is perhaps indispensable . but there are a number of major contributions that lesser states and leaders , as well as civil-society organizations can make .
their interiors resemble the inside smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks are fold down ; there is little bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . what was the inquiry , “ this was the inquiry ; ” it is literally impossible to kill yourself inside them . this “ apparent suicide ” ” appeared promptly suspect . by examining the military , the army had been screened by the army . i had just toured these cells : killing yourself is literally impossible .
moreover , because more needs to be done to improve gender-based understanding of gender-based violence , unodc works with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring male-on-female causes and assessing associated risk factors like the incidence of drugs and alcohol use . decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of appropriate laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . in south africa , for example , the unodc established three centers ( in ment , eastern cape , and northern cape ) that offer legal attorney and medical advice to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . but gathering information is just one step toward closing loopholes in penal laws and overcoming loopholes in prevention policies .
a major driver of the higher-ex post real return is the comparatively high coupon such sovereign bonds offer . these findings are hardly an invitation to accept indiscriminate risk taking . beyond a return history , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third in 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost fully a domestic affair . moreover , there is mounting evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have increased in the wake of america ’s recent court judgements . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign-securities ’ portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with the returns of capital .
within countries where unrecourse loans allow borrowers to walk away from home mortgages , when its value exceeds that of their home , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( for example , sweden ) , where tapping loans allows seizure of household income to enforce payment tests , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the latest housing-market train wreck . but the higher home prices drag up , the further they fall – and the larger the collateral economic and financial damage – when the bubble deflates .
in this view , america , rather than iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has cautioned the us against the dangers of a possible collapse in iraq , and are now finding itself locked into an unequal face-off with iran . indeed , some within the kingdom are arguing that saudi arabia needs to confront iran , rise to sunni arab interests , and become a hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and urge dialogue and accommodation . but the arab world is divided about how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path toward concluding a trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar accord at the previous g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck again , knowing that at worst they will be bailed out . so , knowing that the next time wo n't be different , the authorities are trying their best to avert another “ next time . ” when asked about choosing between a risk to be familiar to posterity as a central banker who let the system collapse and the intangible future benefit of lecturing risk takers a lesson does not take genius to predict a central banker ’s decision . moreover , even as the authorities insist that another time is different , everybody knows that they make the same decision when confronted with an equal choice again . after all , democracy has a tendency to institutionalize moral hazard in an economic or politically vital sectors such as insurance or property , so that they allow them to privatize gains and sociability losses .
but in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what might matter increasingly is the cost of transport , which implies that geography can cause deep regional inequalities . while such disparities may , of course , have other causes just as well , geography apparently explains a lot . first , this helps to explain why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and rapidly after the country launched its market-oriented reforms and open up to the rest of the world . among the big continental countries , including india and brazil , only china holds a small coastline segment but its vast inner regions . when the main object of human consumption was food , this was not a problem because what mattered was land and water .
that leaves aside a further lesson , gained from experience , that us institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be extremely passive in terms of increased lending . fifth , in the us , in the political environment that has prevailed in 2009 , getting more money off the troubled asset relief program would have been neither hard nor impossible . as a result , meticulous calculations about the impact of subprime mortgage reductions on aggregate demand ( which the us carried out and which johnson and soros did not ) do not fulfill their claims : additional spending per dollar of relief was likely to be less than a dime on the us dollar of government money expended . the idea that some version of the soros plan would accelerate growth is , at best , speculative . indeed , most of the benefits of reducing the flow of traffic to consumers come only over time .
because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not readily revised ) in a monetary perspective , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . keynes ’s dictum became the hard-nosed wisdom about monetary policy ( one of his few in order to survive ) . rising prices reduce the value of saving and incomes , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , stimulate deflation , and add to the real debt burden . according to the conventional wisdom , governments should aim for a stable price , with some bias towards stimulating the “ animal spirits ” of businessmen and workers . during the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks established an inflation target of roughly 2 % to provide price-stability economies “ anchor . ”
margaret thatcher was always an adversary on the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british seem an insuperable obstacle to attainment through the others of a more integrated eu . british hostility to this objective has become increasingly fierce , as john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under the anti-europeans of his own party . in law , the british can avoid the unwelcome developments in the eu because the union is founded on a treaty ; therefore , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power , because they have demanded , and have , the right to opt out of participating in emu .
princeton – democracy everywhere faces profound challenges , and will prepare for them . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and the european union is at least one of the greatest risks . europeans trace their malaise to a democratic deficit . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a restoration of national sovereignty is fueling a anti-eu campaign .
persuading the bondholders to agree would be challenging , even more so given recent court rulings in the united states that strengthen the hand of holdout investors . considering the uncertainty about countries facing the near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be an overkill . but , for this to happen , no superior alternative exists . over time , ukraine would be an ideal candidate to re-profiling . to avoid exciting the markets to deal with one another , it would have to be voluntary .
at rukban , a refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 855,500 residents annually receive barely five liters daily for cooking , drinking , and piping . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and a civil war , countries do not have a functioning government to manage their water resources . in times of shortage are refugees , who are probably among the first to feel the effects . water supplies in numerous refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been slashed to a bare minimum – a decision affecting millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures .
and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it harder for the private sector to finance its entire annual budget deficits . first , the volume of jgbs has soared relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion of net monetary assets , an amount that will be exceeded in about 3-5 years by the value of jgbs . at that point , government debt will no longer back taxpayer assets . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure , as pension and health-care costs continue to rise .
a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage the conflict and the hard choices of independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle such matters by talking , rather than fighting , each . too recently , much has happened in yugoslavia , much of it surprising . after some procrastination and an early unsuccessful attempt , milosevic has been arrested , unbloodshed , if not impervious . these are great strides forward , showing that , despite brainwashing and the complicity of many serbs in the milosevic regime ’s misdeeds , democracy and open society have a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , when necessary , publicly name and shame . this is not to say that a ecb president should handpick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s commitment to independence . a good central banker must be able to say no to politicians at all times . the ecb ’s independence is its most precious asset .
greece could , in principle , have counted on massive amounts of regional development aid from its european union budget , which has been under-resourced owing to a lack of local co-financing . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then to a modest degree – that aid can be used to foster an economic recovery . europe ’s ultimate error was a given by some levels of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that made social justice one of its essential goals .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies try to stabilize and grow , at the same time . there have been reform and consolidation measures across the european union . there have been reform and consolidation measures across the european union . and the european central bank has consistently shown that they stand with the euro . notwithstanding the significant decisions that have taken over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do far more to address the challenges facing europe .
yet , in previous eras , the financial sector had proved that it could function as a public good by making trustworthy , efficient services . yet , in previous eras , the financial sector had proved that it could operate as a public good by making it trustworthy , efficient services . across the future , client-services and transaction-board systems will get more input out of customers more frequently in order to shape online product design . millions of bank customers using cellphones can provide instant feedback , upon which products and services they enjoy or dislike . our current strategy in the financial-services industry drives excessive competition , by increasing market share at the expense of rivals , often breaking trust with customers in favor of short-term bargains .
today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not merely the result of a revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread revulsion at the notion that modern states ’ high function is to slot their peoples in a globalized market dominated by the imperatives of effectiveness and cheapness , heedless of non-economic damage . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turn inward to a global casino , as a result of global independence . as a result , the unraveling of multinational states has become a bogus way . the way forward rests in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting the community and regional culture .
indeed , chinese president hu jintao 's recent trip to washington saw many – especially many in china – as passing the torch . the pessimists have long been saying this way . pessimists have long been saying this way . if there is any continuity worth bemoaning , it is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass has always been around half full and half-empty . still , it is very right to question whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century and as long as it does , whether it can survive in america or in retreat elsewhere as america 's economy and its political system collapses under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . optimists , extolling gdp and set in motion other indicators , will continue to insist that americans have never had it so good .
in the past , moving to london from paris , one could easily feel a difference between the two cities themselves . london was bursting at the dynamism and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence has been rented out of britain by social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . but , even as these uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotions that make them impossible to ignore . paris , though undeniably fairer , was at risk of becoming a new rome , a captive of its past glory at best a place to visit but not the eu .
besides investing huge amounts of money , they hold long-term futures contracts that could make them less likely to respond to changes in market fundamentals . these speculative investments can further reinforce the trend and push futures prices further away from a market-equilibrium perspective , especially if many investors follow suit or those who invest have sufficient funds to leverage the market . index funds are just one example of this powerful number of investors in the us . they have become key market players , holding around 25-35 % of all contracts on agriculture . they have become key market players , holding around 25-35 % of all contracts on agriculture .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global safety while undermining american values . president bush is endangering the united states and global safety while undermining american values . for opposing him , i have been demonized by the bush campaign . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of pre-emptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will become endorsed , and the world will need to live with the consequences . i was never heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are not normal times .
indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the wars of succession that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional education and skill training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions , but also social institutions that gave shape to life . the results of many projects in these countries are encouraging , with the current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed . since then , stability and hope have started back into a war-torn region and the widespread desperation of social displacement . the 1999 balkan stability pact and massive international aid helped to rebuild local education while developing innovative vocational training and training systems to boost long-term employment .
thus , it has been taken up : one by iran ’s people , who have shown that they understand the challenges they face , and another by their new president , who has assembled the best team at ever available to commit enormously difficult projects . whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice rather than of ignorance . in the middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important sovereign state – rather than a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions exceed what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake up only someone sleeping , not someone pretending to be asleep . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice rather than of ignorance .
nairobi – with unemployment climbing , bankruptcies climbing , and the stock markets in free-fall , it may at first glance seem a sensible way to ditch the fight against climate change and put environment investment on hold . a big slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion financial-stimulus package for the united states involves encouraging increased renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” ” millions of homes , and upgrading the country to an inefficient electricity grid . but this would be an immediate mistake of immediate , just as intergenerational , sheer inter-generational , proportions . far from burdening an already strained , slightly stretched global economy , investment is precisely what is needed to put people back to work , extract books that flow , and help in powering economies back to health . historically , concern for the environment has been viewed as a luxury ; nowadays , it ’s take necessity – a point grasped by some but , by no means , by economic architects .
for morale , the us needs a social compact that finds a purpose for all , a way of showing oneself to be part of society by being a worker of some sort . and for that the us needs a fiscal stimulus , ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that comes with taxes and expenditures equal in the same way . but we are not satisfied with the unemployment that results from a precipitous fiscal crisis . that is why a sudden round of austerity can not be a morale builder at our disposal . we might all be pleased to work fewer hours if the decline reflected gradual social progress .
that federal law , set up in june 2016 , also established an oversight council , with fiscal decision-making body for american commonwealth . at the center of any effort to resolve a debt crisis must be the understanding that just when today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is needed . such decisions will establish which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic outlook – and thus how much it can pay its creditors . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board filed a petition at a federal court . yet there have so far been numerous crucial decisions , such as how much overall debt relief will be delivered , and how the “ haircut ” among holders of various kinds of bonds will be distributed .
an economic bonus of such an effort across the region would come from opening up direct flights and sea transport via the taiwan strait . ceagpol might even become the building blocks for a northeastern asian version of asean , the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” as a result of historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s last remaining regional bloc is emerging around the world that it still lacks an inter-governmental organization of asean ’s likes . with goodwill on all sides , actual advantages can materialize from building this informal grouping , because it is a gateway to southeast asia ’s huge markets . making matters all the more instructive is the fact that centuries of warfare , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , have inspired rather than deterred , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration .
several years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees . even in europe and the united states , higher-level officials tend to earn significantly less than individuals with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private sector . across nations , many government officials are highly beholden to and absolutely honest , but low pay attracts into the government service of some rotten apples who are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , and surrender to multiple temptations to use illegal means so as to raise their incomes to levels that they deem more suited to accountability and training . we suggested , among other things , that officials in the vulnerable and important posts get higher rather than lower pay than comparable personnel get in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and empowered headlines . but the current rules-based international system , one that has gained decades in making , remains most at odds with syria ’s civil war . now these risks are at risk of being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontation at the un security council threatening to subordinate syria within the pecking order of international problems . not only are millions of lives at the jeopardy ; the global framework for human rights and humanitarian rule is on trial in the same way . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities , the people around the world were mobilized in street vigils and online as part of nato with regard to syria ’s ” campaign .
to be sure , there is a additional feature that many advanced educational institutions have an endowment that they can use to balance inequities . it will take some time to build such endowments in europe and elsewhere . public and private contributions , in many ways , come together in a number of ways . this is true for its financial parameters too . even so , the principle is surely right : universities need to set free .
together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i try to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity , what economists all answer to the same question : what used to be the relative costs of this problem in every year since 1900 , all the way to 2013 with predictions to 2050 . applying classical economic valuations of everything from lost livelihoods , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands ruin , and to increase hurricane damage from global warming , us economists are showing how large every problem costs each of every problem . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it compares with the universal resources at its disposal with the universal resources at its disposal . but , rather than taking the facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should try to compare across every area of human existence to see whether the world truly does better or do worse .
but there is a political prescription that is available for leaders today that might help remove supply-side bottlenecks : more trade . this proposition may puzzle some , but the rationale is straightforward and irrefutable . trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to demand . it enables foodstuffs to travel from lands of so many more to lands of little . clearly , investment in food production must increase over the medium and longer term .
with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform threatening to engulf america ’s economy . trump assumed office promising to pull the swamp ” in washington , dc . but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-rich than most had anticipated . it avoids the needed reforms and will leave the country with mountains of indebtedness ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – will take decades to undo . instead , the swamp has grown broader and deeper .
it is common for people to update their global views with what they have last seen ; if what they last can see is a robust economy and a stable financial system , they would conclude that they have stabilized this system . in a strong economy , finance looks stronger , and current regulation looks set to become effective . if this cycle holds even approximately right , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer will soon turn into regulatory confidence that the last war has now prevailed . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts revealing that its leaders saw such a world . yet finance can fail in a number of ways ; a lehman collapse is just one .
rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of the steps he takes to change his detractors early on . but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their files , no matter what they supposedly assumed as a symptom of their insanity . modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lesson of the rosenhan experiment , and they are now turning diagnoses much more cautiously and rigorously . at best , they would be declared “ in remission ” in remission . even if it stops ranting on twitter , or speaks at convoluted and incoherent phrases , it is at best viewed as “ in remission . ”
boston – espousing nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges refugees must confront , while await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health care tops the list . it is a challenge that demands more attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors – as well as from engineers – who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and affordability of health-care worldwide by developing more faster rates for everything from diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services . those contributions are systemically important for refugees , too .
over the past 30 years , the dominant ip regime erected ever more barriers to exploitation of knowledge , often producing a gap between the social returns to innovation and the private return to widen . the current ip regime is not sustainable at all . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped the arrangements made clear to the latter early , reflected their opposition to provisions recognizing the intellectual-property rights implied by traditional knowledge or biodiversity . even among the early industrializers , ip protections came very late , and often intentionally eschewed to enable faster industrialization and growth . the widespread acceptance of today ’s stringent ip protections is also a historically unprecedented event .
during this era , the dollar strongly appreciated against major currencies , and by 1985 was over-valued in virtually every measure by virtually every measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so long as these interests diverge , we should expect little monetary-policy coordination between the two central banks . despite the european central bank ’s advent , that asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange intervention , the fed intervened only once .
after all , a key reason for european integration at the forefront of the eu was precisely to give a stronger voice in europe in the international arena . in the coming g8 meetings ( the world club of wealthy industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , the united kingdom , and the united kingdom – will participate both individually and as members of the european union , whose president also attends the eu as a whole . the main argument in favor of such an change is that a joint engagement by the eu would increase europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis america . regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would have a supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a joint european attitude in international relations and on international economic policy . but should nato have only a single representative ?
indeed , two types of slippery slopes – both logical and sociological – exist . the idea behind a slippery slope is that if you do x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another – although the two are conceptually different , just because the existence of one creates a form of human-climate receptive to another . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another – although the two are conceptually different , just because the existence of one creates a socially receptive climate .
cambridge : suddenly , devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable an economy has become to lose international confidence . the central bank attempts to hold the exchange rate , but eventually it is forced to let the currency float . the result has been a currency collapse and a surge of bankruptcies . abruptly , foreign lenders , taking down short-term credit lines , curtail what they owe . the us economy confronts its most severe economic crisis of many decades .
likewise , rearguard efforts to prove that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that americans and britons wrong , combine demands for `` proof '' that iraqis possessed weapons of mass destruction , appear unconstructive , and merely cause mutual irritation . should the us seek to preserve the un security council and the position of the current permanent members , then those actions made the opposite effect more often . the world might not have supported america in its unilateral attempt to overthrow the world policeman in its unilateral effort , particularly because they may well bring about more instability . nevertheless , it is important to realize why it is a firm us enterprise , and to respond to the fundamental problem of today 's international order . if russia and others that opposed america 's iraq policy at the un security council in earnest were intent on convincing the us not to attack iraq and oppose international law , it was such a naive policy doomed to failure .
a change that would have the greatest positive effect would have been the emergence of a new government in damascus , which has been acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people , as well as a satisfactory partner to the united states and europe . unfortunately , this seems likely to come about only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which seem more inclined to increase their support for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime than to work to eliminate it . the caring challenge of , employing , and integrating such numbers quickly runs up against limits on physical capacity , fiscal resources , and public tolerance . it is obvious that public policy can not succeed if it focuses on the consequences , rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees one day – the modern day volkerwanderung – enter germany , partly owing to rough conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to embark on them .
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – the eu ’s juniper cobra ’s exercise – was carried out to test israel ’s potential integration into america ’s ballistic missile-defense defenses . american sources described the drill as “ the fullest air missile defense system , ” we ’ve ever carried out anywhere in the world . it has been a significant contribution , they claim , to develop a planned nato missile-defense shield for europe . israel has also joined nato in ’s ’s ’s naval control system in the mediterranean region , contributing to an active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . both sides seem keen on extending their partnerships ’ reach , with nato goal of reaching high levels of interoperability .
even if all girls eventually come home , nothing will ever become the same again for them or their families . launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky , and the risk would grow . it is believed that the girls were split into discrete groups , so that any effort was intended to save one group would imperil the others . it is hard to see how the girls could be safely returned . despite talk of having a government negotiating agreement with the captors , that option , too , would be fraught with peril .
poland played by the “ rules ” ” ” of financial markets and managed to finalize restructuring fast ; but the pact was a bad one , and it did little to help the economy recover . excessive penalties lead to a negative-sum game , in which a borrower can not recover and lenders do n’t enjoy the bigger repayment capacity that the recovery would entail . three years later , greece is in desperate need of a new restructuring . the absence of any rule for debt restructuring fresh start , and can lead to chaos . distressed debtors need a fresh start at the time .
history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , it would often be administered improperly , such as at suboptimal doses , in a manner designed to encourage viral resistance , and only intensify a pandemic . or might they have been sold at the black market to enrich corrupt heads of government . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would have been for the rich countries to devote resources to the developing world mainly for surveillance . we would expect to see ample disease among the staff and patients in the hospitals where the victims are treated , and soon to someone ( possibly including an out-of-pocket who is non-sick ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , baghdad and beyond . anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive and fairly expensive .
given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , these benefit seems likely even if migrants work and pay tax and welfare contributions to welfare contributions . but , even with such measures , societal benefits may artificially reinforce the incentive to relocate . if migrant workers gain welfare benefits alongside wages , more will be lured into coming rather than necessary , and marginal migrants would generate welfare losses equal to the benefit . as long as the migrants gained welfare benefits , wages become more flexible , allowing eu labor markets to absorb immigrants more effectively . forcing western labor-market policies to be flexible is the best solution by opening a system of public-wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state .
palestinian authority headed by the west bank fears that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent . yet with their administrations unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continuing conflicts over hebron ’s holy sites , bethlehem and the al-aksa mosque , west bank palestinians remain extremely frustrated . if it does , israel might use this as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly-built institutions . recent street demonstrations could easily turn to the outbreak of continued israeli rule resistance . israeli president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy .
to prevent such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging populations , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished import demand in the west , makes reform all the more urgent . li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and falling into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” wages continue to rise , diminishing competitiveness vis-à-vis low - and middle-income economies ; but the growth model is yet to be equipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . a developing economy can slow prematurely , when it reverses the conditions that support growth .
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not be simply able to swoop in and implement his agenda . indeed , with his democratic party holding just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will have to win support from the centrist parties and even the conservative opposition . to succeed , moon will need to revise carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the obvious pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the key problem that such broad-based recruitment could create . moreover , he will need broader public backing as well .
the causes of obesity are complex , and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but there is no hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . according to the centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of all first-year children in the us are not just overweight but obese . it is hard enough for non-profits to compete with the production values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial . commercial tv programs directed by children are replete with advertisements for processed foods of dubious value for human health . and , for every celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , there are scores to accept large payments to hawk products like the ultra-sugary drinks that are arguably our generation ’s tobacco .
europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , has struggles to resolve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . nowadays , however , america is on the brink of power , economically and militarily . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s nation-states and people are more intertwined than ever before , as the ideals , information , finance , migrants , and problems flow increasingly seamlessly across borders . new powers like china and india are rising rather than rising , compound assertiveness with a emphasis on their continued “ development ” status . so no one , at least , is in charge .
no doubt , recovery in the uk began more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery picked up speed after the end of 2012 . according to the imf , only the american economy will have grown more rapidly over the next four years , with the uk then regaining the lead . at the same time , per capita gdp must surely be at levels preferable to aggregate gdp . last year , its rate of growth was the highest of the g-7 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . back in 1802 , america ’s third world president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religions are a matter that lies exclusively between men & his own god . ”
but , by overcoming disparities and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are empowering the support of a world order grounded in collective solutions for shared problems . i spoke personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and stop ebola from spread . we are making progress on both topics , but much work remains . bringing countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intense diplomacy and appeals to relationships that have built and retained over decades , in addition to alliances with new partners .
if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to america ’s america to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate-tax rate of 35 % on its previously pre-tax iranian earnings , with credit at a 12 % cost that it has already paid . because of that 23 % penalty on repatriation , american firms generally decide not to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries . consider the example of a us corporate subsidiary that earns profits in ireland . that subsidiary pays an iranian venture-capital tax to ireland at a historically low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest consensus-based profits in ireland , on treasury bonds , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world , with the exception of america .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument to mobilize massive stores of capital for investment in infrastructure , research and development , as well as in other core areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing greek bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” ” ” europeans can ensure greater economic independence from other powers , starting with the creation of the euro as a global currency . at the same time , the issue fails to acknowledge national borders , and thus demands for collective global action . with the right strategy in place , europe can drive its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from lower-cost manufacturing , in china and elsewhere . but the transition to a carbon-neutral economy also offers far-reaching opportunities .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . and , like its economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed in the west . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , in terms of it , regards it not only to poland ’s output , but also to its essence , the young country , and it is also an ancient civilization . fifty years ago , if you sought to read about india in the west , you would tend to find books about spiritedness . in part , in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced icelandic capitalism , which produced spectacular economic advances .
and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend our own interests . what the us will have is a power vacuum , marked by chaos . merkel knows that if america sacrifices its place at the summit of the us-led international order for domestic political reasons , she will not be replaced by another leading power , or by a new global order emerge . a careful analysis of merkel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s words reveals that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe .
there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , feel that a democratic transition has become all but inevitable : the party is simply losing control of the country . the bottom line is that questions like , “ are we generating too much inequality ? ” can not simply be asked in china , it is effectively called into question . this makes it all the more reason why china is not being able to shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . the upshot is that whenever an issue gets out of hand , a turnaround comes too late , and is a dramatic one .
for example , the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) unexpectedly demonstrated both the willingness and ability to raise the struggle force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . lesser spectacularly , but arguably more important in the long term , ecowas is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of a unified currency now an explicit objective . in south africa , the south african development community , following its shaky start , pushes ahead of joint projects – of which transport infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce – is a central theme . likewise , east african countries are pressing integration projects ahead , appearing to learn from the region ’s past failures , following hastily constructed , unwieldy , and overly ambitious structures . indeed , there is a number of interesting practical moves in this direction , although not all are pursuing the former regional course set by their founders .
so , where is this demand-driven growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . with the private-sector demand stalling , the labour party wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a cap that germany is already hitting . unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact with abandon , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very contraction of private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high .
new york – in his remarkable apology to the catholics of northern ireland ( much of this country of ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought sinful priests are tempted to express sexual acts with children . it was because of “ new and serious challenges to the faith stemming from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . ” and ireland is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . as we now know , child abuse by catholics emerged not only in ireland , but in many other countries , something the pope preferred not to dwell on them . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic instruction and values .
last august , the israelis authorized an extra seven battalions and 20 tanks in a zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought in the full number of additional troops , and did n’t even bother to transport tanks across the suez canal . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may seek to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as us president mohamed morsi ’s own legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in poland . egypt ’s approach toward sinai deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it has stationed an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in a zone c. , and the army never established a regional command inside sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors dispersed around cairo and its environs .
their home page depicts a smiling young executive based in chile and society pushing them to enlist women in palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there there to hire . with powertofly ’s technological prowess transcend cultural barriers , a woman can make a contribution at the top of an american company , even as local laws ban her from running a car . unsurprisingly , given such a model , many men do want him just as good . “ thirty percent of women in many middle eastern countries have college degrees degrees , ” ” ” zaleski explains , but do not so often can not obtain the jobs commensurate with their cultural training . the founders do not rule out eventually expanding to address the need .
but , in italy , one man , mario monti , already makes a difference . of course , hardly anyone elected monti nor his position is fragile and already challenged , but there is a positive near-consensus to allow him to trigger long-overdue structural reforms . so here are ten good reasons for believing in europe , with ten rational arguments to convince pessimistic analysts and worry investors alike that it is highly premature to bury italy and the eu altogether . the first reason for hope stems from the impact of statesmanship returning to europe even when in homeopathic doses . it is too early to predict the impact that françois hollande ’s election as president of france .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university documented , protracted periods of interagency unemployment rates have suffered severe and lasting negative effects on their children . many of these decisions turned out badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how they are deployed ) eliminated many middle - and middle-skill jobs . in the us , children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve support as well . but america did not provide that – a point recently made by jean bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in the 2016 election . the heightening globalization of trade also did not help in this respect .
at the same time , governments need to understand barriers to investment : regulatory failure ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technologies . and they need to make rigorous cost-benefit analyses work to ensure that any interventions translates into private-sector investment that encourages productivity growth . it is here – at the level of execution , that governments often perform poorly . too often , they are spending money to foster government-led private-sector projects that fail to yield a positive real return for the broader economy . policymakers need , however , to understand linkages to investment : regulatory failure ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technologies .
here is where the link between food security and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – as many are – demanding more meat and dairy . this trend has grave implications for agriculture . cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane , particularly in the developing world . animals consume more food than they produce ; they consume more food . and clearing land for livestock releases of carbon dioxide at a staggering pace .
leaders of such organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite sources . for example , they need to balance the battle against child poverty and hunger against efforts to boost gender parity , increase access to education , or address corruption . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently researching , has a far more expansionary mandate . yet all of these institutions share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty and to foster sustainable development . have served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central-bank governor and now foreign secretary , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have overseen the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left is confronting the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working-class working class . but one of the most important reasons is just as grim as it is simple : european voters have become increasingly opposed to immigration , and do not trust the left to restrict it . on a continent long defined by right-wing democracy and center-left parties , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond special party interests .
at the same time , it would reduce america ’s exposure to growing turmoil in the arab world . the us is projected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 , becoming an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario would grant america three enormous advantages . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the diminished costs involved in extracting shale gas . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s main strategic rival , china , which has become increasingly interdependent for middle eastern energy supplies .
at the same time , traditional parties might have learned something from listening to voters , rather than just through the media and pollsters ’ filters . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the widening income divide and other indicators among some affluent cities , benefiting from globalization , the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration had a national leader mired in tax cuts based on where one lives . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp now amounts to redistribution first to the poorest parts of the country . the gap between their objective analysis of reality-show and government-run policies has become a chasm .
whatever gilets jaunes may advocate , it is apparent that the us could save more lives and stem more economic hardships , by helping people in extreme poverty in low - and middle-income countries than the us could with expenditure it in france . indeed , let us suppose that the experience of visiting or recalling notre dame makes people roughly twice as happy as they would otherwise have been over that time , which implies an additional hour spent in notre dame , or , in the view of one ’s visit , is as good as broadening one ’s life by one hour . how many lives , then , is that worth bearing ? suppose that we ’re saving the lives of people who would live 60 more years ; the 9000 years of annual benefit is the equivalent of saving more than 150 lives every year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but we now have to ask , just how many lives € 1 billion could be saved .
indeed , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 in order to meet the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as a battering ram against schwarze null . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to mean larger budget deficits . in the us , such a package would be hailed as a green new deal . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of emission spending . spending on items like energy and the environment may be helpful .
in the real world , opening up is not a simple matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . it demands a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . any economist who appears to question the advantages of trade openness risk banishment , so let me be clear : i do not question standard versions of the gains-from-trade theory ; but extravagant , ill-founded assertions made upon the consequences of openness . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of a true article , because it unleashes expectations that are unlikely to be fulfilled . while many institutional reforms have internationfriendly , they may be reluctant to focus on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and at times divert attention from them .
but , as the examples cited above expose , sea levels are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . that is because , as it stands , technology specialists typically conduct seas at behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists have emphasized repeatedly , tends to be unethical . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on just superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often resisted , despite failing to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidance . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , the seas need to be rigorous , credible , and transparent . that means they must be led by well regulated , impartial professionals .
prior to the crisis , us regulatory bodies focused mainly on removing trading barriers , and generally favored measures that made markets more full of fostering faster , cheaper trading of a broader variety of financial claims . but there are some signs that such assumptions are now being challenged . on the contrary , nowadays many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . perhaps such ease and effectiveness do not fuel market-based instability and serve intermediaries ’ interests rather than their clients ? that is , after all , no longer the case .
after strenuous transnational protests over chen ’s kidnapping , the fpc decided to investigate . central authorities seemed like an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . in addition , xinhua announced that local officials were responsible for the violence might be prosecuted . and xinhua wasted no time in claiming that underabuses were restricted to a handful of towns . nonetheless , central government authorities have done little to curtail the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers .
these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move to reduce its long-term asset purchases ( so-called quantitative easing ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also underlie asian economies ’ need for a stronger financial-safety net . tighter american monetary policy could intensify the global credit shortage , thereby intensifying pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . overreaction and bond-market herding behavior by market participants might trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . the 2008 global financial crisis laid bare fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , as the failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily against emerging asian economies .
this partly explains enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin . with the presidency ’s term now extended to six years , we can expect an encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s prior performance showed . for many russians , if not most , the governing figure embodies the powers that control anything that matters in life ; rather , it supports him , regardless of the policies that he implements , because there is no possible alternative to him otherwise . now , however , the conspvance and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . this question today is not so much the case concerning the outcome of next year ’s presidential elections ; that is already set .
the other major shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be an feckless , irresponsible president . at first , he traveled throughout the country in recent months to celebrate his victories , ignoring chaos back home . he then started vetoing virtually any government decisions , stirring a political stalemate , and , confronted with the end of his presidency tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to her credit , had cast a vote against the constitution ) . the old regimes ’s adherents can do far more easily ploy the newcomers into hazardous compromises should the process become exceedingly rapid . but , whereas yushchenko serves as warnings to russians not to elect an irreversible president with overweening powers , an underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown has been that most of its ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) have been defectors from the old regime .
the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed both politicians and bureaucrats to take advantage of public service as a vehicle for gratification , gives birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . given this thinking , performance was not the relevant criterion for judging the utility of the public sector . inefficiencies were disguised with lavish subsidies from national treasuries , and a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic executives , business unions , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services systemically vital indians must stay in indian hands , and not at the hands of indians seeking profits from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in disinterested hands of the state , the father , and the mother to all indians . indian-style socialism , after all , was a compound of centuries of nationalism and idealism .
with the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders – near one-third , according to a survey of reuters institute – believe that new foundations and unprofits will play the central role of media support . but persuading the foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connections and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software . technologies by itself can not stimulate democracy , help answer key questions , and facilitate effective leadership through boosting accountability . for organizations with no clout – and digital revenues , of course – a data-driven approach may also be needed to secure investment . potential funders need to be persuaded that journalism is as noble a cause , as , say , cancer research .
not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition that he has called the “ ultimate dream , ” ” ” ” ” precisely because it would tear up the eu . to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and plainly defined economic program , with the democrats compelled to accept being an “ junior partner ” of an untested insurgent force . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s ’s politics could tip the eu ’s balance . a possible core to power-sharing would be for democrats holding a crucial ministry of finance , whereas m5s appoints the prime minister . a pro-eu italy , governed by the m5s coalition , could unite with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis both the eu and russia and spain ; and implement a green-innovation-led strategy of growth .
and , indeed , the latest three executions in poland stemmed from terrorist offenses that threaten or took large numbers of lives . my pronouncements were also motivated by problems regarding the way capital punishment is delivered in india . the us supreme court declared that the death penalty was to apply only in the “ rarest ” cases of rare ” incidents . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective , a deregulatory union . indeed , whether or not capital punishment is meted out depends on several variables , starting with court and social biases .
as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding their hard-won savings at a bank will finally start to realizing some of their returns on its deposits . the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the help impact of a compound savings rate . during the most recent tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , households ’ interest income rose at an average rate of 29 % . and the average hourly wages of all workers on private nonfarm payrolls posted at an annualized rate of over 2.5 % in october , the largest since the start of 2009 . while this time , gains are likely to be smaller and slower to climb , owing to the likely pace and scale of the fed ’s tightening , the interest rate that pays on savings moves household incomes in the right direction : off .
beijing – most western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the chinese communist party of china ( cpc ) as a kind of pure power play , with chinese president xi jinping undermining his position . but the accumulation of political capital in this case is a means to an end . xi knows that if china is to continue thriving in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly a major social and economic transformation , while advancing , even more important , improvements in state governance . and , in order to secure the long-term survival of china ’s ’s ’s ’s one-party system , he must reform the state and party institutions ; indeed , for xi , it is a prerequisite for economic reform . for xi , that is ending the smooth transition to modernity , which cements the cpc ’s long-held authority and ensures his own legacy as modern-day china ’s greatest leader .
another issue is how much revenues should be channeled , and how remittances can be fizzled in a country as large , complex , and financially backward like nigeria . but , even with all the hardships of corruption and inefficiencies , which will no doubt plague its actual implementation , our proposal takes precedence over the status quo . after all , today ’s dire conditions are the result of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , transforming economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . at all , the time to act now is .
the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s ’s ’s ’s stability ? this can not be answered in the abstract , because every situation is different . financial markets are best understood as an historical process , and history never quite repeats itself . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions of currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and a lack of financial information that can not be ignored . volatility in financial markets can lead to serious economic and social dislocations .
indeed , the sars experience in toronto in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of bigger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , at the moment , these epidemics may have been eliminated entirely in the coming months . screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented important epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will last , or that the virus can be reintroduced to human populations of animals . health officials around the world should maintain vigilance and preparation for the possibility that renewed scrutiny efforts will be needed if sars resurges .
it is hard to see how a democracy can take root if a country ’s most important source of income remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside of its premier international forum for tackling transparency in resource revenues , while needlessly reinventing the wheel in the process . so let us hope that the new iraqi government does better . certainly , the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles at its disposal for achieving a global disclosure and responsibility standard . likewise , the us and britain have been using their power in iraq to advance transparency at the national level .
stories about israel focus almost entirely on the palestinian conflict . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; the lionization of non-comparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . this is not to say that israel should consoled by the macabre arithmetic of bloodshed . there is more united nations resolutions devoted to human rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined . joyce karam , the washington police chief of the pan-arab paper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ “ muslims kill muslims , ” or “ arab slaughter , ” looks more acceptable than israel killing arabs .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability to many developing countries . yet , whether driven by a narrow ideology or reacting to demands from special interests , the bush administration continues to demand the extreme form of such liberalizing deals in its framework of bilateral trade agreements . the second topic concerns the emergence of unbalanced intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and communications industries . spearheaded by worries about aids , us activists around the world demanded that something be done . such provisions restricted countries from making drug imitations , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries .
we can expect to see figures in the coming years indicating reduced health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will be collaborating on extra measures to reduce the un ’s environmental and climate impact . as matters stand , the shipping sector – ranked alongside countries – accounts for the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . now that the cap is coming into force , the us will rapidly benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , durable global health dividend . such efforts are crucial to reaching the targets outlined at the 2015 paris climate agreement .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : center-right “ charm asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the “ rosy scenario , laffer hypothesis , and the us “ starve beast ” scenario . these are hard promises to keep , for the simple reason that a budget deficit equals government outlays minus tax revenue . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world thus may have an interest in training the four tricks used by american politicians when promising to slash tax rates while simultaneously reducing budget deficits . yet , over three decades , each of the four tricks has worn thin .
the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s banking system . first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . second , and , worse , being “ too big to fail ” helps big banks to grow even larger , because lenders and trading partners prefer to work with banks that have an implicit government guarantee . so which is this : are the banks still at risk ? or is the need for post-crisis regulatory reform done the job ?
in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration , offering further aid to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries request it . but reinventing nato is a long process , and will necessarily arise in small steps as well . the participants in chicago will indeed make significant differences on such issues , and the outcomes may not be ideal . the alliance ’s main goal must be to ensure that these are steps forward . though it is far from impossible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proven its capacity to act wisely in libya to improve its image in north africa .
moreover , “ center-right ” often implies conservative , ” ” and macri ’s triumph will not “ conserve ” the status quo . macri is best described as “ liberal ” in europe ’s sense . in argentina , the left-right divide has been blurring the policies pursued by the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party ( afd ) , which privatized state companies in the 1890s , only to re-nationalize them later . argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer via an education , is often described in the international center-right ” press . but that label is by far the right .
we have also learned that only 20-40 % of all breast cancers that afflict families come from the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – genetic alterations that present from birth in every body cell and can be transmitted to offspring . elevated cancer-causing risks are also familiar with several inherited syndromes , such as the li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further connected to the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including the soft tissues sarcomas , leukemias , leukemias , and brain tumors . most recently , immense studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of a brca1/brca2 mutation carriers identified so-called modifier carriers that can reduce them or increase individual risk . in most instances of familial breast cancer , however , genetic predisposition remains elusive . women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of no more than 85 % develop breast cancer , while the heightened risk of developing ovarian cancer develops around 55 % for women with an brca1 mutations and roughly 25 % for women with brca2 mutations .
seeking to lead the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy . xi ’s administration is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investor-intensive economic growth toward a pattern based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s pursuit of global change will lack a clear vision and a coherent strategy . a second problem arises from china ’s incomplete shift on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , america immediately and unconsciously dominated the globe .
and staying below the 1.5 ° c cap will mean just 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at high risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on an understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs arising from inaction . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling issues like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our greatest asset . costa rica is proud to guide the world by putting that approach into practice . as a result , we are one of the few countries that is prepared to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement .
but there is a major obstacle to an easing of tensions : the united states ’ proposed $ 6.5 billion sale to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . the china-us defense partnership ( cius ) talks have earlier stalled , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch dispatched to the obama administration by china ’s government . there is now genuine hope that talking along these lines can succeed . promoting china ’s traditional civilization , with its strengthened spiritual ties , was now possible .
in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to a european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government of the so-called “ ceu law , ” ” which the university admission stated was aimed at forcing it away from the eu . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and the rector michael ignatieff could have said , “ i got my support in washington . ” and ignatieff has done some backing , at least initially . it is now time for some aid in brussels . it is now time for some support in brussels .
one survey found that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely treating its effects on stroke , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believed that doing so was effective . some 36 % of chinese physicians think that the efficacy of acupuncture remains precarious , perhaps because the scientific foundation for it remains so new . more recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatment have begun . for example , most chinese medical doctors and patients have long considered acupuncture as effective treatment for stroke , using it to improve motor , speech , and other functions that have been destroyed . in fact , almost all of the trials on acupuncture as treatment for a stroke conducted within china were positive .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the european union – continued to underfire their inflation objectives . economists also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidities , an infact artifact from the 1960-70s , when organized labor became far stronger . in fact , falling labor force may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . clearly , the idea that employees will always resist cutting payroll employment ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer seems to apply . but , even more important , this could be the reasons why measured productivity remains persistently weak .
so it is critical to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires ensuring educational opportunities for everyone . but a trade-off between rising inequality and growth does not have to occur . at the same time , a modern economy requires risk-taking , too . a country ’s most precious resource is its people , first and foremost , being its people . governments can enhance their growth by enhancing inclusiveness .
consent should not become snatched away , as a train ticket has kept out for the conductor . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting a patient ” – as though this was something is done for a patient , such as drafting blood or administering an injection : “ dr. smith please consent mr. jones . ” the problem is incoherent when consent gets reached just hours before major surgery , and months after the latest consultation with a surgeon . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he , or may , choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . this may lead eu patients to consent procedures that they do not understand – or want .
so far , this abundance of choices has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who might , after all , soon decide to join a competitor . those with the sought-after talent have more bargaining power , are better able to manage their careers , and command higher salaries . nevertheless , as the talent gap loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward more investment in professional development . at the same time , employers that provide learning opportunities become a destination for good talent . those with the sought-after occupational skills have more bargaining power , are better able to manage their careers , and command higher pay .
similar to traditional military-command-and-control protocols , acquiring power in the numbers , and you can rapidly interact with a broad array of attacks . such a digital ai ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reducing the possibility of failure , and mitigating the effects of ai incursion . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about networks of computers fighting one another while men stand by . it would portray the broader picture of singularity , ” ” ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surrenders to surrounding the human being . fortunately , on this issue , it remains far from imitating art .
it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for researchers globally . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ” ” ) – in japan . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the “ science20 ” network , a group of science academies of the g20 countries . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and to conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an improved data repositories and management system ” that ensures open access to scientists globally , ” and the “ sharing of information acquired through research activities conducted under extensive and multinational collaboration , expedite a robust understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . on april 30 , the world witnessed the abdication by his majesty of the emperor akihito , the first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 .
by investing in “ smart ” - and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil strengthen their brand identities and luring talent , investment , and business from around the world . the africa bank ’s american-canadian author and urban activist , jane jacobs , has famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . it is up to cities to drive growth through innovation and commerce and exchanges . and city services are often more visible to residents than federal aid ; consider , for example , those who react during a traffic crash or a natural disaster . to be sure , today , ’s ’s cities confront many challenges .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas piketty , the world ’s author is whitewashing , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trading practices . the danger is not only that rising economic rivalry , protectionism , and free trade would threaten global prosperity ; it is that such developments also raise the risk of serious political confrontation . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought on entirely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and exchanges , and corporate nationality , even major multinational corporations , would become just as important as their business model could be . if that is where the earlier , hard-corporate priest of globalization now stands , china faces off against not just trump , but a liberal america , too .
on the international scene , large states try to establish international rules and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims by shaping a larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” instead of accepting the international system roughly as it does , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to change the rules , in their favor . in a small-nation setting , the imposition of dense networks of checks will probably lead to the loss of cellular factors of production , while making themselves harder for labor or capital out of the room . the new political realities were highlighted after the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and it is driven by russia ’s foreign and domestic political assertiveness . small states ’ nervousness and apprehension began rising in 2000 .
a law restricting transportation strikes has taken hold on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 , from 60 . rather than repealing the law , overtime work is in order to become easy and relatively cheap . in fact , democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy . this opens the way for more , and deeper reforms .
with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in the us ; on the contrary , the challenge of implementation of eurozone financial reforms is actually greater . rather than recognizing domestic banks as important purchasers of us sovereign debt , the banks argue that more efficient regulation would limit credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will most likely constrain efforts to put europe ’s economy on a much sounder footing . indeed , the banks are arguing that more efficient regulation would stifle credit , slowing the pace of economic recovery . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have steadfastly resisted increasing capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that doing so is an essential component of effective re-regulation .
to consolidate support , thatcher would have taken the head-to-head with carefully selected enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . this reflects a fundamental clash between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aim to oscillate the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that depict the former . but , while the ideas are different , the tactics are the same . each time that trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , they detract from trump ’s core support base . likewise , as hudson institute of craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize the anti-trump liberals to fight for causes that alienate them from mainstream america .
young democracies may be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as their political opponents . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed march 20 presidential election – only the third such democratic vote in the history of a country – have tested this truism almost to the breaking point . compassion this has secured a president whose razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chirac , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the first party of the people ’s party ( kmt-web ) coalition . in fact , taiwan ’s young democracy has to deal with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s reelection thrust upon it . while canvassing for votes in his seat in southern taiwan on the eve of elections , president chen and vice president annette lu both injured the assassassin ’s bullet .
even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his grand vow , which was ramped up in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s gdp in less than a decade . against this backdrop , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his grand pledge , set in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s gdp within a decade . a signature effort to diversify and modernize the economy has failed because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not work in the top . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to go to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva was to theirs : the man of the left that move toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . on assuming power , kim and lula were able to adjust , politically and physically , to the new realities that confronted them launching much-needed reforms . like tsipras , both had been elected in the middle of an economic slump . some of the reforms were accomplished as a conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and perhaps not made under labour ’s politicians . both immediately confronted the mainly with international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore .
in fact , annual economic growth in the us averaged over 10 % between 2006 and 2012 , when the gujarati town of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew of world town prize . but his decision to run for the prime minister is through the far his riskiest move , because testing his domestic appeal . although the us supreme court has cleared him with all personal wrongs , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it harder for modi to win muslims without antagonizing his hindu nationalist base . this has not prevented modi from assuming any political risk , starting with his assertion that india needs toilets any more than temples . but history haunts modi ’s ’s ’s ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of over 1,000 people at anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this opposition ; instead , it is merely discouraging initiative . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp every year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth was less than half that of the official figure . perhaps this can be countered by the private sector ’s underlying dynamism ; but , even there , the fear of losing control increases the party ’s role .
meanwhile , both turkey and the united states share a mutual interest in working together with iran in iraq , syria , and iran . turkey ’s real strengths are its thriving economy , a secular , democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region that is struggling to unite behind a twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer ties with the us , and its contest with iran stiffens in the us in the wars in iraq and syria , it will also have to come to terms with a more assertive russia , one that is keen to demonstrate itself in the middle east and its eastern mediterranean – and to maintain its foothold in syria . how turkey has navigates the syrian debacle will determine its standing in the broader transformation of its neighborhood . for better or worse , the status quo in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey must rethink and recalibrate its regional policies .
with almost two million patients now on antiretroviral therapy , the annual aids-related deaths have plummeted by around 100,000 since 2005 . these remedies have lowered rates for new infections ( though the overall number of people living with hiv , especially aged 15-49 , remains on the rise ) . in fact , another important factor has been the improved integration of the treatment plan . epidemics among underneath babies , once running at around 70,000 per year , have been cut by some 63 % , and the livelihoods of millions under hiv/aids sufferers have been dwindling . the us government has aligned its early-anti-retroviral therapy programs for incumbent sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women .
astonishingly , hibernating bears lay the new bone , by producing the kind of substance that inhibits cells that break down bone , and encouraging those that manufacture bone and cartilage . but this can happen only if the cornucopia is re-conserved , allowing current and future generations of researchers to turn around new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . these mammals spend , in just seven months , during which they are basically imable . consider the polar bear , threatened with the extinction of climate change . a human would lose a third or more bone mass when it makes this time .
but they need stronger support – not only on the air or with arms and training , but also from western special forces . yet this is not just a european fight or that of the united states . the entire alliance should commit itself to the defeat of the terrorist attacks . this , in turn , concerns global order in a stable and prosperous world . there is also a strong argument , both for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has come under attack , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , ensuring mutual defense .
now the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly includes existential questions about the survival of the european union and the eu ’s entire european project . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe is currently being challenged by the question of how much europeans it wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how much social solidarity is being proportionate . such debates – and thus the european parliament that comes up next year – are unlikely to adhere to standard party lines . that means that the contenders in next year ’s presidential election are unlikely simply to put their focus on domestic issues . while there will be some , too , extensive discussions about europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and interactions with major powers like the united states and russia .
• while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak governments impedes growth , because weak states can not provide laws and executive orders , can not enforce contracts , and can not ensure secure a secure , sound banking system . the question should not have been about how to deregulate quickly , but about how to develop the proper regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host to other things that even the best-performing market economies can not keep up with it . after all , it was all too little regulation , equity and financial-market liberalization municipal foisted on east asia by the imf and the u.s. treasury , that led to the financial crisis of 1997 . market failures are the reality of life , but so , too , are government failures .
to make any sense at all , monetary policy has had different effects on various groups at different times . any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . importers prefer a robust exchange rate ; consumers prefer a weak one . they certainly do , but to what extent ? any and all monetary-policy moves redistribute wealth .
so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not jeopardize china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years ’ . in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages can rise while actual wages are stagnating , owing to higher inflation . even with real wages rising in some coastal cities , the “ surplus labor ” could retain a national average . and even real wage increases at the national level will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows even faster .
germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports make it attractive to us foreign buyers at the current exchange rate , germany back in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany ’s exports have exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . so it is clear that germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated steadily from its current level . to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we must look at the us trade balance .
within the weeks leading up to the election , the public seemed to grow weary of prime minister binyamin netanyahu long enough to be corrupted by power arrogance , and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . these structural elements were bolstered by developments throughout the region , reinforcing a sense among israeli voters that they are being compromised by the country ’s many foes : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas ; the rise of isis , amid state failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . on this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodations involving territorial concessions . in fact , netanyahu ’s victory was an impressive personalistic comeback . he ran a campaign that relied on his own eloquence and charisma in the same way on scare tactics .
as a result , investment should be phased in , which can mean temporarily stocked some petroleum ’s oil wealth abroad . the following year , the managements of petroleum income have divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as advocated by economists around the world ( including the us ) . but , with spain ’s presidential election last year over last year , the situation has begun to worsen . across this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 and production started in 2010 .
back in 1997 , the imf and the u.s. treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency of financial markets . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm about greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have become important , and clandestine banking accounts have prospered . the majority of the developing world has accumulated massive foreign-currency reserves . but there are some large disparities between then and now .
policymakers should do the same when it comes to lifting sanctions against russia , mitigating its impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . looking to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them . in any case , hardships suffered by the eu ’s citizens might have been lessened if the eurozone was followed by draghi ’s own last-minute prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset the reforms and fiscal consolidation in others . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine .
whereas reports are surfacing that palin has told a small group of african-american women that she did not have to hire black people , working-class white women frequently grasp her own experiences in terms of racial hostility . they sense an underclass that they would like to receives the benefits they are denied to them , and a thriving economy in the developing world that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . think of appeals for movies like thelma and louise , or working girl – in which a leading character is a gutsy – exploited secretary that , trampled by snooty ivy ’s league boss , has nonetheless manages to put an end to the dream of working , dreaming man , and corner office . so , when sarah palin wares up to a media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , depleted factory workers , and state secretaries . to see a working-class white wife be picked to serve the heartbeat away from american president resonates powerfully with them .
china has already delivered on that front by abandoning a growth model that had successfully driven the country ’s breakneck economic development for more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift from a pattern that has focused mainly on exports – as well as investment-led production ( through production of manufacturing ) to one led after another by private consumption ( through services ) . that change will give china a much better chance to avoid the dreaded , middle-income trap , ” ” ensnared in most of the developing world , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believed that the recipe of early-stage takeoff growth was enough to achieve developed-country status . in fact , america and the chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book the discontents of china and america ties them together inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . at the cop15 summit in biarbanda ’s future , implementing inflation targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to foster multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks on a primary objective . while such solutions have some merit , they are inadequate to address the effectively complex and far-reaching weaknesses that led to the global financial crisis in 2007-2009 . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . the crises have represented a comprehensive , systemic failure , involving receding breakdowns at nearly all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentive systems .
for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , “ globalization ” has created an winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced actors gain market share through economies of scale . specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a select few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and deeply creative industries win big , with a global boom in tech stocks recovering on their gains . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities while hampering smaller players ’ abilities to compete . in fact , piketty ’s framework emphasizes several drivers of this trend . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings .
but prevention must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and scale with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceeds what every country has — and the international community — to counter such flows . many countries lack foreign-currency reserves sufficient to meet sudden and massive capital outflows without a destabilizing domestic economy . at times , these outflows may occur through the country 's fault lines , but in the form of financial market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . all of this phenomenon became all too apparent during the asian crisis and followed the russian debt default of august 1998 .
it is a decision made practically independently by prime minister tony blair and even opposition to labour . blair believes that britain ought to be joining the euro because he wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe ” . most commentators have tended to presume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what may happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . like the courtiers who surround the louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learn nothing . the only question now is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not fairly yet , ” “ not before the next election , ” or , perhaps , “ no . ”
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , including commitments to truth and evidence , ” ” ” ” has coincided with unrestricted “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressive emotions as racism and class envy . but , to do so , what can stop demons already be unleashed ? the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing troubles worsen , and vast opportunities go missing . and , while it may be halted , can the damage they have already wrought ? there was some resentment against trump when he failed to condemn a clear white supremacist protesters in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ “ right to unite the ” rally in august has culminated with the murder of a counter-protester .
in the end , trump has proposed tax deductions for mediocre childcare costs . this might seem widely beneficial , but it would help only those in high-enough us tax brackets to itemize deductions , most notably households with per capita income above $ 75,000 ( the median american household income amounted to $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . indeed , there is little indication how either of his tax policies would be financed , and any hint is that they would sharply broaden the us budget deficits . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike in the past , all other presidential candidates since richard nixon refused to release his income-tax record . what is certain is that trump ’s fiscal policies are fiscally irresponsible .
and , in south africa , marlon parker , the founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator , established a “ virtual currency , ” known as zlato encourage actively participating in skills-training workshops . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on – and off , the continent . since its inception in 2008 , the red tape has generated tens of thousands of jobs and is now operating in 24 countries . entrepreneurs supported by anzisha prize , for example , generated more than 300 jobs , and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital worldwide . and , in south africa , marlon parker , the founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator chief , established a virtual currency , known as zlato , to encourage more active attendance in skills-training workshops .
but this would annoy hardline brexiteers , and may have divided the conservative party , a gamble that theresa may has been unwilling to take . avoiding this scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy in the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . british leaders need to acknowledge that any brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs a national debate to rank voters ’ preferences . but then scotland would call for its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , pushing the uk to track a major constitutional shakeup and possibly dissolution . choosing between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending brexit altogether .
at the same time , the country received $ 70 billion in grants last year alone , more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment . the importance of diaspora financing – from working-class indians ’ remittances that have transformed kerala ’s countryside to one million poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon of silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , particularly during the global financial crisis . encouraging them to do more and give them a reason to do more is undoubtedly a worthwhile challenge for india ’s government and the overt goal of asean ’s annual conclave . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect of the pravasi celebrations , as suggested by the numerous parallels between inward foreign direct investment . but the us should not have run its course : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than overseas chinese are doing in china .
apple , for example , has been rocked recently by revelations of brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . significantly , there are now cellphone apps that evaluate and grade big multinational firms ’ online supply chains for consumers , investors and public employees . companies that scores poorly risk losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or legal action . companies that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and brand losses , falling sales , difficulty in recruiting talent , reduced female productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or increased climate-change-related costs . in response to concerns among its customers , their employees and their shareholders , apple raised working conditions , agreeing on periodic reviews by an independent observer .
for example , the saving uptrend in china began at about the same pace as its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 . this prevented birth rates from rebounding following the 1966-76 cultural revolutions . likewise , they tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high saving . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent highly published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that such demographic shifts explains much of the rise in saving rates , because chinese substituted capital investment for child investment . but neither income growth nor demographics explains everything .
in the 1930s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusted old veteran of america ’s civil war , received to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard university graduate , but one that was not a distinguished student at all . asked later about his impressions of his new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; world-class temperament . most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq iq . while the concept is modern , the idea is not new . to be sure , practical people have long understood its importance in leadership .
ever since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed with an almost constant , north-south cultural and religious divide . matters were subsequently complicated by an isolated conflict , this time between muslims – over sources in west darfur . at independence , if an non-muslim south gain at independence a large degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is conceivable that the country could continue to live through a peace process . an independent fusion of predominantly arab , muslim north sudan , and the arab south , where christianity and the traditional animist beliefs are predominant , has been an abject failure . a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich freetown of abyei will allow voters to decide if they want to unite the north or the south .
usually , they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me “ to look into ” a particular topic . but i have also received the requests , often from global superpowers , in ways that were in clear violation of article 100 to the un charter and have had to spend a great deal of time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . being responsive to a member state ’s concerns and priorities was right and ordinary ; taking orders from them was not . but my overall experience at the undp and the world bank has suggested that staff and management can and do act in accordance with article 100 . when i was the un ’s administrator of the undp , i had been forced to deal with constant “ requests ” from government appointees .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund managing director , has lost around $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of which came from its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the company was misjudged by the pace of the shift toward green energy and a meltdown in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations . more broadly , the investor agenda on the low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in managements . meanwhile , unilever ’s director-general of energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who have ignored climate-change warnings have already taken center stage . these funders appeal to governments not only to limit rising temperatures , but also to meeting the paris climate agreement ’s harder target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
in short , china is on the edge of great , necessary , and dangerous transformations that will promise to transform the country for the better – or to make everything , including regional stability , much worse . conflict with the united states , for the moment , is already unlikely . the entire world has a large stake in what happens next . at such intemperate time , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us . but trouble with america ’s asian allies , particularly japan , might draw on the us in the fight that it strongly favors avoiding .
south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer have likened the bill to apartheid legislation . now , however , south africa ’s right to information information is jeopardy . in late november , the parliament speaker of the lower house , head of the predominantly african national people ’s congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly endorsed a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield countries ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer have likened the bill to apartheid legislation . south africa adopted the free press in 2000 , just five years before the united kingdom did .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , yet it is still a robust performer , contributing around one-third of total global economic growth . it has also become more sustainable , consistent with shifting its growth model away from investment and exports and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china , there has been plenty of talk about new commitment to growth-enhancing commitments in both the advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china is facing significant risks . above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate-debt accumulation accumulating to dangerous levels .
hong kong – earlier this century , when china launched its much-maligned policy , focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies , few expected that the country would quickly emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has happened , if anything , of course . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its geopolitical influence , both in and outside the region . the question is whether this is good for latin america at all . in less than 15 years , china has drifted from playing a rather fringe economic role in latin america to be among the top investors and trading partners for most of the region ’s countries , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder .
in remarks following the press conference , he has praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and “ the absolute leader of the presidential race . ” there is little question , nonetheless , about which america ’s candidate putin would care to see at the white house . the two men surely deserve each other , and the two men stand to lose . both are consummate propagandists and performers . and both stand ready – even eager – to bully , conharangue , and the lie to get ahead .
in practice , this would entail pursuing policies to aid the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left agenda to account for the spillover effects of disruptive technologies and business models . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that he originally chose , fast becoming the darling of a more business-oriented international press . the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda and to pursue the labor-market , taxation , and investment policies that aim to “ adapt ” france to “ capitalist ” globalization . the latter avenue would have required that macron build on the pre-existing but murky conception of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that he originally chose , fast becoming the darling of a business-oriented international press .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . “ if you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s ’s fine , ” ” and if you do n’t , all the time you can figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or change “ laws , ” ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s language phrase . in the benign scenario , people will club together across states on the basis of their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of services , and toward international cooperation or isolationism . in a vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress may seek to restrict progressive states ’ rights . “ why do we look to the federal government to try and mend our local problems ? ”
for years , over-reliance on traditional fuels has discouraged energy-generation investment in clean-power-generation technologies , despite the two countries ’ being innovators in green industries , such as energy storage and smart grids . furthermore , they are paving the way for increased regional investment , placing their countries on a new regional marketplace . whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs and 14 % are met with nuclear energy , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry through a no-renewal of existing licenses and bans on future plant lines . blueprints is still formulated , but taken together between the two countries seem to mark a major shift in their regional energy planning towards greener , cleaner technologies .
because the dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the money supply of america ’s dollars , so long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not exercise its own money supply . under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders have agreed , in principle , to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender its control over its money supply and its interest rate to the us . yet china ’s rulers are right to suspend their decisions to float . the chinese can delay but can not hide from fundamental economic legislation : if the exchange rate between two countries ’ currencies is fixed and capital inflows between them are unconstrained , the economically dominant is exercising control over another ’s monetary policy .
as the paris agreement recognizes , many researchers are convinced that warming above a 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extremely costly , particularly for developing countries and israel . the good news is that , if we somehow stopped all emissions around the world today , temperatures would continue to rise only for a decade or so or so before stabilizing . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scholars believe that warming beyond 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it would be extremely expensive , especially for developing countries and israel . as a result , we are in a growing race to the bottom . to be sure , can we turn the tap into zero net emissions sooner than the tub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ?
wonder you , then , that citizens of the west are blessed with living in an era of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through eu democratic processes and foreign and civil wars . indeed , no one today has any ideas about the consequences , both for the uk within the global trading system or for the impact on domestic political stability . but what , exactly , is an equitable , democratic process for making irreversible , nationalization defining decisions ? i am afraid that this will not turn out to be a fairly picture . is labour really enough to win 52 % to vote for a breakup on a rainy day ?
after all , defense spending accounts for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom achieve 3 % . but confining debating the defense commitment to a 10 % - of-gdp spending binge is inadequate , because there are economies of scale in defense spending . so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense rather than bigger . instead , today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies collectively , while defense spending in the us arguably increases even more in the years to come . security and global influence are not the only advantages that come through military spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the un general assembly this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . back then , in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back on the immediate postwar era , and felt as though it was “ “ present ” at the creation of the ” ” ” ” of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . and yet , at the unga this year , many attendees felt as though present at the disposal of the world . anxieties went well beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say or tweet . even before the summit set in motion , europeans , canadians , mexicans , southern koreans , and the japanese were consultations in earnest about the need to save the us multilateral system .
indeed , for democracy is fragile , at best across north africa ; as in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have merely begun to feel the tiples of a tidal sweeping wave across the region . bahrain remains the flashpoint ; iran is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel might be set up at any time . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have demonstrated all too vividly , the arab awakening still exists only in many countries in its first act . meanwhile , even while isis has remained at the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another in order to establish a united opposition , and working with regional leaders such as turkey , egypt , yemen , and saudi arabia to broker deals . in the medium term , the world associates with tensions and potential crises with which american leadership is likely to become indispensable to resolve .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or the government experienced war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe on collective future . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent during the fall of 2008 , when , in the wake of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . lacking a common european plan to resolve the crisis , there would be no common european plan that is needed to resolve the eu ’s crisis , and no call for public funds to be put in place . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the autumn of 2008 , when , in the wake of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . these new leaders envision europe solely as a trading regime .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . such shortcomings are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like anything to applaud . for now , such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is entered into force in russia , ukraine , kazakhstan and belarus . when is a free-trade treaty really bad ? when the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor liberty , the treaty ’s underlying purpose . yet , sad enough , the treaty will only entrench the corrupt and criminal business practices of the world ’s largest , rather than boosting trade or prosperity .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , leading islamist party groups , has less reflection of latent ideological support among some newly liberated members than is a testament to the party ’s spectacular ability to fill the post-revolutionary political vacuum . as of january , nahda has opened more than 200 post offices . a party ’s imposition of headquarters in tunis symbolize its positions as the country ’s most effective political operation by a large margin . scores of volunteers are placed in electoral campaigning at a grassroots , door-to-door level . ominously , opponents recall the complicity of party cadres in the 1991 deadly bombast of tourist targets , nahda went to some lengths to appease his critics .
consider first the claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it because governments around the world need to hold us dollars as foreign exchange reserves . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid , widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap when their imports exceed their exports . but , since the late 1990s , countries like south korea , brazil , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of us foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks unleashed by the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was us treasury bills . the problem is that foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily us treasury bills .
under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s responsibility to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can make bad economics work . and yet hungary is offering a clear example of the former . by bad economics , i mean letting financial markets dictate what happens to the real economy .
cambridge : the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to humanity . the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to intensifying global conflicts . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common roadmap for action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food partnership . countries and organizations already mobilize support , and the solutions are already being mobilized . the world bank has made forcefully emphasize the importance of agriculture for jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the cycle of poverty .
to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit pensions also require positive returns to break even , and when most of its assets yield a negative-nominal return , such outcomes becomes increasingly difficult to service . at the same time , many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pensioners , do not have an alternative , because they are required to hold on to a safer bond . but , given such investors ’ long-run liabilities ( claims and rewards ) , their mandates aim is to make bonds mostly riskier than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet negative bonds yields are also occurring in countries and regions where the currency is depreciating and is likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of europe ’s core , switzerland , and japan . so , why , then , are investors holding such assets ?
in his first year and a half in office , macron started to address such problems by managing the budget in line with eu deficit rules . the problem is that , in pursuing these reforms , macron abandoned his core center-left constituency . and so , when it was announced that his administration would increase its tax on diesel fuel , center – and working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls showing that around 70 % of french support for the yellow vest protesters , macron was forced to retreat . step by step , his reforms appeared consistently to benefit the wealthy .
in recent years , there has been intensifying opposition against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears , stoked in part by populist political leaders in many countries , that supranational “ elites ” are seeking to impose “ globalism ” : “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” some also argue that the global elite have pretended only to pursue socioeconomic change , while essentially maintaining a status quo that has benefited them . but the perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are political . after all , many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their global influence by contract politically and militarily in others ’ affairs , with no explicit endgame .
this reflects a different logic from the one that is calling on inflation as a way of shoring up long term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but has equally serious weaknesses . first , while low rates might encourage spending if credit were easy , it is not at all clear that the traditional savers today would go out and spend . as a result , by inflating inflation , the fed would effectively turn real interest rates negative , thereby coercing thrifty households into expenditures rather than saving . with rising demand , firms would hire , and all would go well . think of the soon-to-retire office worker .
though it took clear promises by the g-8 , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear instructions to avoid such a plan . for the first year after the meeting of gleneagles , the aid numbers were padded by misleading debt-cancellation accounting measures . with those debt cancellation operations largely completed , the data are now revealing stark realities : development aid to africa and the poor in general has been stagnant , contrary to all the promises made . specifically , between 2005 and 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding operations with debt cancellation , grew at a meager 2 % . the g8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction .
perhaps the biggest grievance of the past year has been inequality , at least so far . and while inequality has risen in some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic and remains at reasonable levels . perhaps the greatest grievance of the past year has been inequality . but that is not what the average citizen sees . according to the european bank of reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on 2015-2016 lives in the allocated survey , produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i was chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far exceeds that described by official data , typically based on household surveys . yet , globally , inequality is declining .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the world ’s most powerful federally-guided organizations . and , while the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that brought about the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even more authority and more responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have slid back into their pre-2008 paths , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when those concerns are voiced by members of an american senate banking committee . this is not just unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position is far more insecure than its governing administration seems to realize . america ’s central bank has control of dollar reserves , and currently exerts great influence over interest rates both on short - and long-term borrowing .
unless a global disaster exists – a meteorite impact , world war i , or a pandemic – mankind will remain a significant environmental force for many millennia . as a result , scientists and engineers face a stark challenge during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require fitting human conduct on every level , and perhaps well involve internationally accepted , extensive geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” the climate . more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation failed to evolve . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading into terra incognita .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have recently emerged from dictatorship . in all these instances , a cynic would be a half-right . the process requires a constitution making the state of often complicated and painful type . constitutional change is for political leaders to find a welcome distraction from the much more change-resistant social-policy issues . but there are at least two exceptions for this suspicion .
annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace of any quarter in seven years , has outperformed market expectations . and it has been driven in part by unforeseen growth in growth in real-estate investment , to more than 6 % . this is undermining corporate profitability , setting firms to deleverage , and reducing investment , fueling further declines at ppi . this is not to say , what is needed in china now is more real-estate investment . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s ’s ’s ’s economic growth reflects trends from the first quarter of this year .
iran affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , a intellectual property represented by a drug patent ) , assembles a product in iran , and exports it back to america 's america . taking a value-added view , a patent makes a top contribution . but that does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait out it is proven wrong , because the reported us trade deficit is potentially narrow in its most recent year , even as the true us trade deficit widens . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” ” – prices by multinational corporations use to place the value of cross-border trade in inputs among its subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which sets in motion a trip to iran .
the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing sexual education ’s availability , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . local ngos , along with their responsible global partners , must find new support to programs that educate women on their rights and provide access to safe abortion services . and yet , in the wake of america ’s policies , none of these changes will come easily . if countries like south africa ever get away with having republican administrations assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . solutions start at home , whereby developing countries need to start moving away from conditional aid that restricts health providers ’ ability to work according to local laws .
what makes this fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks that it sets out . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our underlying moral compass . we want technology companies to have a central role in providing fresh thinking and distortionary thinking . in establishing this fund , we are all ending the formulaic response era . we want firms that already make online education and the internet access , and it is hardware to steer the provision of education to displaced , isolated girls and boys .
but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself together . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of ukraine ; but the overwhelming majority of voters have emerged in favor of europe . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but that was in turmoil . debate over an association agreement with the european union , combined with the western-backed rebellion in the east , has fueled tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . russia ’s interference has to some extent backfired , boosting support for a european orientation .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , which is under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . regulators there are now keenly centered on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to manage a new relationship between london and the eurozone . against this backdrop , the challenge of retaining the primacy of global standards will be to secure the continued buy-in of mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year . the bank of england ’s new general manager , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico city ’s central bank , will have a pivotal role to play , as will anyone who replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as chairman of the fsb . also probably , more will soon come to pass as a new chair of the basel committee itself .
supervision , more transparency in financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and improved international political coordination . there is clearly a need for international institutional coordination on regulation . there is a clear demand for international regulatory gaps in banks operating globally . at the same time , there has been spillover effects on international financial coordination in other countries . crisis-resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally have been absent .
in fact , american extraterritorial sanctions are no credible long-term threat . europe can face down american extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily become denominated in euros , the renminbi , rupee , rupees , and rubles throw out american banks . oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished via a euroclearing mechanism like instex . if america were to introduce them against the majority of the rest of the world , harm to america 's economy , dollar , stock market , and u.s. leadership would be irreparable .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . but so , too , is the court of justice , which has evidently assigned little weight to their arguments . the very fact that the international monetary fund , the u.s. department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing vulture funds illustrates this very well . such treaties should also involve collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold debt restructuring . when a sufficient share of creditors agree to a rescheduling plan ( in argentina 's case , holders of over 90 % of the country 's gdp ) , others can be forced to go along .
oil exporters need to raise fiscal spending further ; japan and europe must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america needs to implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings . but expanding demand and allowing real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not suffice if other countries do not do their part . knowing what to do in this increasingly difficult and volatile situation is an easy part : look at the context of a multilateral consultation policy plan , and “ just do it . ” as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report points out to america ’s congress earlier this year , for china , these plans aim to “ rebalance ” its economy : increase domestic demand and anemic growth ; reform of its financial system ; and achieve greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern is china ’s central economic objective .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . washington , dc , gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s wellbeing for more than 80 years .
the notion that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out of reach for him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is at putin ’s pocket should certainly worry americans more . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , america remains a positive force in the world . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , alongside the european union , to stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in nearby eu countries like poland – are not necessarily misguided .
if one presupposes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the numbers would be higher . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . according to the oecd and the un ’s climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively were mobilizing $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 trillion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while i am important to note that this figure is just a estimate , it represents a tentative but credible indicator of climate finance , based on disclosure from advanced countries . but larger financing flows are also needed , particularly from the private sector .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapses , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions converge to adapt fast enough to harness change , or will they be overwhelmed by it ? moreover , while inter-state conflicts have been proliferating , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , communal politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . and this leads has yet to another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is the set of questions about the impact of new technologies .
the irony , though , is that the us has exercised greater control over iraq 's oil sector , under the un 's pre-war " oil-for-food program " ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , has specified the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it would in any future , a democratic iraq . but america 's interest in iraqi oil was not driven either by economics or by energy policy . if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it could simply raise the embargos on libya , iran , afghanistan , iraq , and sudan , allowing the oil gush . recognizing that the bush administration was seeking stable , secure , diverse , and cheap supplies of oil could simply raise its embargos on libya , iran , afghanistan , iraq , and sudan , allowing the oil gush . the bush administration recognized that - mainly iraqi oil - is a critical geopolitical asset .
to be sure , income inequality and social injustice present the concomitant of western-style capitalist culture . one hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equal to 25 % of gdp , while $ 800 million of their compatriots survive at less than one dollar per day . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , america would still be far wealthier than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . compared to indian capitalism , business capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere look especially benign . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at different levels of labor income , to different kinds of consumption , outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . from this perspective , the us government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 by sharply raising marginal tax rates to the bottom ( thanks to testing for welfare programs ) and , more recently , at the top ( thanks to raising tax rates on the wealthy ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is the american payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is close to the oecd average rate ( because the deductions are absent and there is little graduation in the policymaking structure ) . from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( as a result of testing for their welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . accordingly , cutting the payroll tax rates in 2011-2012 and making the rate rescheduling more graduated ( on the side of the medicare ) have been mistakes from their standpoint of an efficient tax rate .
for many developing countries , high oil and food prices present a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for the grain , they must pay more to bring it to their countries , and still more to supply it to consumers , who may live long distances from ports . but , unless they are made to the intolerable level , those actions on their own can not bring inflation down to target levels . for example , although global energy and food prices rise at an all-time low than now – around 20 % per year and get reflected in home prices – bringing total inflation rates up to , say , 3 % would require fully falling prices elsewhere . rising interest rates can bring down aggregate demand , which can help slow the economy and tame price increases among some goods and services , particularly nontraded goods and services . so long as developing countries remain deeply integrated into the global economy , and do n’t take measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices – home prices in the us and other grains are bound to rise very well when international prices do .
thus , they are generally not formally given anything they do . momentous points for them are the formula for never-ending conflict and never-ending defeat . the leaders that brought on failure , and the groups that failed to triumph , became heroes for being able to assert themselves courageously in the fight against the enemy , without being defeated . such a pattern has been a formula for never-ending conflict and never-ending defeat . yet defeats do not drive new attitudes , policies , or leaders .
as though america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to their central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections , and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to overturn any of them ; and even if he does try , he may fail . fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . should he leave office , the us will , in essence , be what it was when it entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy . american governance institutions have survived greater challenges than any that trump might pose .
some professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even though tissue was already removed from the patient ’s own body . nowadays , brain tissue banks are led by breast tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories to study a variety of diseases . for what purposes , they can be used ? virtually all of us have the tissue on file somewhere , not to mention drugs . who is supposed to have access to these specimens ?
most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , and citizens in democracies have to learn more about the nature and limits of new demands on leadership . in turn , potential leaders can learn more about the sources and limits of the soft-power abilities of emotional iq , visions and communications , as well as hard-power politics and organizational capabilities . they also need to understand better the nature of the contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . with soft power , yet the energies of empowered followers reinforce the leaders . leadership is broadly distributed across sound democracies , and it takes all citizens to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders .
at the same time , morocco has repeatedly obstructed progress towards any further negotiation . it did so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region in order to set the stage for the talks . that deal was meant to set the stage for a independence referendum in western sahara the following year , a democratic solution . at the same time , however , morocco has kept it out of the process . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac the gaullist side for sarkozy , and with françois mitterrand , for royal , as large as the rupture . royal openly claims mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s ’s legacy has more to do with shape rather than substance . to a large extent , sarkozy may be perceived as chirac with more , whereas royal speaks clearly to mitterrand with less . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than on positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac was faced with the odious nationalist of jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the winner next year will whomever the electorate dislikes or fears less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing , and its confluence of us-led interests makes hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . with obama unwilling or unable , owing to rising political partisanship at home , to assume the lead in resolving crises such as those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s primacy assumed in 2014 and america ’s asian allies hijacked a fright . global power needs to be allocated somewhere ; as long as america does not fill its leadership role on the international stage , an under-study would have to tread . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo petroleum platforms from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending out surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less frequently . chinese officials have also become far more willing to discuss forming a code of conduct for the south china sea .
labor-force participation in the u.s. has fallen back to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers . yes , the us has done some things that it did work better for financial markets to improve itself . labor-force participation rates across the us have fallen back to levels not seen since women began entering the us in large numbers . in the us , the majority of americans have reached income and wealth below their levels long before the crisis . some increase in capital requirements has occurred – but far short of what is needed .
cambridge – whether or not the american people will continue to lead the world remains unclear . the two leading contenders for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted cruz , both said that they would tear up the iran nuclear deal should be elected , were elected . it is worth recalling us president george w. bush ’s outcome ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton of the us-israel “ framework agreements ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear-armed iran . in the eyes of the american presidential campaign , the obama administration adds another element of uncertainty . what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant of all .
at the same time , president vladimir voronin later granted the detainees an amnesty , amounting to 10 % at any time . at the same time , stability is important because poland ’s borders on romania , a european union member state . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin continues to hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organized coup d’état . restoring stability and a more equitable , democratic system for moldova is important , first and foremost because moldovans deserve a government that is accountable to them . for their part , president vladimir voronin later granted the detainees as amnesty international .
on the eve of their decline , a few arab autocrats really were lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . that raises a raft of other questions . first , were economists , in particular , misled the false inferences ? the world bank of ’s subsequent mea culpa is an obvious indication that there may have been trouble with the policies they prescribed to the arab ancien régimes . in fact , were the economists misled by the false inferences ?
whereas china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after doing so , it has relied on capital controls to prevent hot money flowing in . as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amounts may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) to maintain macroeconomic stability that in the years since china effectively did maintain macroeconomic stability . the key objective for china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-resident non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-citizens to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets .
he and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , the independent media , and much more . it is a direct threat to democracy , one in which the us should have its deepest cultural and political roots . trump does not just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . but things are more than that . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz has spoken presciently about an age of comprehensive war that would enter less than 100 years after his death .
whereas official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than five % to borrow for ten years , whereas creditworthy firms in italy are able to borrow at punitive rates only at punitive rates , if at all . so the ecb should do more to unlocking the monetary-policy transmission mechanism ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise special capital amounts rather than striking a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size firms . in short , structural reforms by itself can not rely on stimulating growth in 2012 . instead , the immediate focus must be on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits – such as france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs the backing of the real economy as well .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party was privatized by the majority of public-sector firms , leaving a majority of the service sector . his new government vows to continue eliminating the government deficit and lowering unemployment . he also promises to slash income taxes , place the country on a firmer social welfare system , and reduce the costs of shedding labor . introduce real competition in the fields of energy and telecoms , lacking in the process of privatization , is also pledged . so far , aznar ’s program is sensible .
cambridge : nowadays , the internet pervades every field of business life ; leapfrogging business activity above internet astounds . an important new report by the american commerce department , “ the emerging digital economy ” , indicates that the internet is reshaping communities not just american businesses but the global economy . a major new report by the american commerce department , “ the emerging digital economy ” , suggests that the internet is reshaping communities not just american businesses but the world economy . moreover , in 1994 , at least three million people – predominantly americans – used the internet . as recently as january 1995 , about 27,000 internet companies were internet addresses .
( natural foods can also create health risks , as was recently demonstrated by studies establishing that a popular sort of cinnamon may inflicted liver damage . ) but while cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may produce , so far no new superweeds have emerged . regulations to protect the environment and consumer health must be preserved . there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods are causing illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” food . we should be pleased with this – and perhaps the regulations put in place in response to the concerns expressed by the environment ’s organizations have played a role in this outcome .
we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant . unfortunately , another lesson from the financial crisis is that most us policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risks actually materialize . the virus protection and the development of virus constitute an uneven arms race with the us . a virus can become just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that need to be discovered to detect wide classes of enemies . let us hope here that we are lucky for a while longer .
indeed , a modest 3 % increase in the developed-country workforce would provide a larger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . these migrant worker tax would help advanced countries fund low-cost services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . moreover , each dollar invested in such an initiative would generate almost $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . these impressive figures emerged from the comprehensive analysis conducted by a team of top economists , tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with the assessment of potential population-related targets to identify the best global investments . by boosting productivity at home , this approach has enormous potential advantages .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the most commonly used generic drugs in the world . it is the preferred medicine for reliving fever and pain due to its safety profile , ten years ago , a hypothesis has been proposed that the use of paracetamol can increase the risk of developing asthma . such studies have led to the suggestion that the use of paracetamol may represent an important risk factor in the development of childhood asthma . the substitution of aspirin paracetamol for aspirin , researchers suggested , may have led to an enhanced allergic immune response , thereby increasing susceptibility to asthma and other disorders . since then , several epidemiological studies have reported a associations between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in uterus , childhood and in adulthood .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” ” says charcharles mcgruder , a professor at the ministry of physics and astronomy of western kentucky university . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raise an profile of careers in science and engineering in a part of a world in which the most educated people continue to lead their lives in finance or governance . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is primarily an advantage to the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raise the profile of careers in science and engineering in a region where the most educated still drive forward funding or management . “ the answer , ” after all , is stated , “ is partly that by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals .
unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profitably regaining the future . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all the other ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism , became inescapable . because neither banks nor investors had enough cash to plough to plough in a networked mega-business , the mega-bank emerged in the form of a global cartel of banks and shadowy funds , each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profitably matching the repayment of the future . because neither banks nor investors had enough cash to plough in a networked mega-business , the mega-bank emerged in the form of a global cartel of banks and shadowy funds , each with its own shareholders .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the crisis passed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is bouncing back toward its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern . nor , so , are earlier trade balances on a path to re-emerge . america ’s trade position will be reinvigorated by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and productivity increases that auger further reshoring of us manufacturing output . emerging markets , for their part , learned that us export surpluses are no guarantee of us fast growth .
still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can at times find credible messages alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are piloting eu funds to take advantage of themselves , his families , and his businesses associates . in fact , orbán ’s government was run by a number of investigations through the european anti-fraud office . both governments were cracking down on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted by arab media . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , sufficient to change the constitution . during the electoral campaign , orbán ’s government was saturated by the country in increasingly xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda .
following these debates , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that permit stem-cell funds for stem-cell research , but in their present form , prohibited federally-financed investigators from establishing new stem-cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines be acquired only from the non-privately-funded , or commercial sources that follow guidance protocols . thus , i believe that restricting the use of governmental funds to create stem-cell lines , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps on others . thus , we know that a variety of inadequately understood factors causes embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate themselves in every potential cell group . this capacity loss of low-class , perhaps derived from particular mode in which stem cells arrive , conditions surrounding their increases , and other variables of handling .
yet , far from accepting such contributions , the plan would mostly cut regulators off from the process . for example , a plan would bar bank regulators from inching up on a mega-bank ’s bankruptcy , leaving it on a bank ’s discretion . in the nonfinancial industry , failing companies often wait too long before declaring insolvency , so creditors may step in to do some push , potentially even forcing a default on a failing firm . while bank regulators have the tools to pressure the banks similarly , their most efficient one is the power to trigger bankruptcy when it is best for the economy . taking away that tool altogether could have severe adverse effects – and even make sure that brings it .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has moved away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” ” ” ” ” of climate change . instead , we are told of purported economic payoffs primarily of the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . the copenhagen consensus center asked gül to gülen , a senior energy economist at the center of energy economics , the bureau of economics geology at the university of texas at austin , texas , to assess the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the production of green jobs . sadly , that does not measure up to economic reality .
after all , we have entered an era in which velocity , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where capacity for experimentation throughout every sector is an essential enabler of success . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to spur two struggling governments and overcome their own conservatism . it is absolutely essential that this text accompanied the new method , tailored to the current world in which we live – a world where politics can no longer be conducted in muffled ministerial debates or through convoluted communiqués . nonetheless , it is regrettable that the treaty ’s two articles of 28 are very vague . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of the newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest-growing .
that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable governments , rather than subsidizing failing and bankrupt states . while there is much that the us can and will do to help its people , the horn of africa can still make good profit from international assistance . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable governments , rather than subsidizing failing and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , and promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world . but the international community needs to do more than provide food and medicines to victims of famine and drought .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . trento , the most significant outcome of the european parliament elections in recent years is neither that conservatives and social democrats have lost seats to the liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained less than anticipated . it is that eu citizens voted in much larger numbers than anyone expected .
in a sense , the killings at srebrenica also suffered memories of world war ii . we have known that adolf hitler intended to destroy every last jewish man , a woman and a child . even though mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s attempts at extermination was , if not unique – certainly highly unusual . nevertheless , laudable efforts to prevent such a thing from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to learn lessons from history , we frequently learn bad ones or distort history towards dubious ends .
this is the paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it is politician ’s obligation to come to terms with the tensions that it affords . but the route for particularistic action that does not undermine liberty , and equality for all its citizens is narrow . indeed , democratic principles are appealing to organizing society in such ways that the two values they are capable of being realized at the greatest possible scale . yet it is also citizens ’ obligation to preserve the formal , political-meaning of citizenship , as state intervention broadens to ensure that everyone is well off . that may restrict political freedoms in the name of greater equality .
do such figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are the usual signs of a boom ? if america ’s potential growth rate in the decades ahead remains what it has been over those of the last thirty years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying . stock market prices would have been far too high , relative to inflation now and then look to the entire western world . a exterior imbalance would be unjustifiable , indeed , unsustainable . to be sure , households would be behaving in totally irresponsible ways .
indeed , france is indeed doing better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , in contrast to germany , france , the united kingdom , or the us , has retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it had in the early 1970 ’s . moreover , according to a better measure of comptetitiveness , its foreign investment , france is performing very well . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not quite as convincing as he believes . for example , he cites draining away from industrial job jobs as the most glaring evidence of france ’s downsizing . yet deindustrialization has been common to none of the advanced countries .
a second lesson that i have learned also usefully for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers are emerging and where all actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must grapple with the challenges of globalization and inter-dependence on a day-to-day basis . such lesson is that europeans have more friends than they have enemies with one another . i know that this is not exactly a new lesson , but it is precisely what i have in mind when thinking about efficient multilateralism itself . if italy and the eu did not understand the need to work with non-european countries and make them feel that they were then responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , the effort to establish the icc , and if they were so close to declaring a universal moratorium on the death penalty , would fail . with these friends deserving respect and attention , it is their job .
the problem is that empathy for an american workforce runs tensions with empathy for workers in mexico and china , both of whom would have been even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts . in his campaign speeches , trump made use of unhoned steinle by an undocumented immigrant in order to stoke support his anti-immigrant policies . of course , he offered no similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who save outsiders ’ lives , though such cases were reported . empathy makes us kinder to the people with whom we are enfolpathize . that ’s a good thing ; but it also has a darker side .
this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely the use of its bully pulpit to warn of the risks created by large-country policies . small countries operate under market discipline , as any kind of “ latvian ” tells you . or it could be the case that there is no confidence in national policymakers in the imf , given that it essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , the fund needs to win confidence again . small countries are encumbered by market discipline , as any latvian will tell you .
provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from heightened labor competition , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise living standards . what businessmen do not need is low inflation to expand output – that is , businessmen do not need it . that is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempted by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels . they need only the prospect that something more sales will take their place . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should drop except in a little niche state markets .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of either china or india , its economy is around half the size of china ’s gdp ; but bigger than japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s , and more than twice that of india ’s . these divergences help to explain why several new acronymic groupings have since been carved out by the n-11 , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) , and scapping ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . thus , eight years later , the fog economies still have the opportunity to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . i failed to devise such groupings , but i have come to associate with them with them , having produced a bbc radio documentary on the mint countries of mint in 2014 . they have kept pace with earlier points that i have raised them ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey will each account for over 1 % of global gdp .
and because us president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take forceful actions . america ’s intelligence agencies were warning president barack obama of america ’s tactics , warning putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to cry russia publicly or take forceful actions for fear that russia would escalate by attacking electoral machinery or voting rolls and threatening hillary clinton ’s expected victory . after the us election in march , obama went public and expelled russian spies and closed some diplomatic facilities , but the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrence . the brilliance of russian-innovations in information warfare was to combine existing technologies , with a certain degree of deniability , which remained just below the counter-offensive threshold .
cambridge – the united states ’ presidential election campaign is surely unique in its outlook . donald trump has shaken the way in which a woman runs a campaign , how the appointee communicates with his voters and the republican party ’s platform , with many of his positions detached from gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered senseless in just a few hours . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line . he is altering his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them .
and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive papers and funding of right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump to whom the kremlin would be supportive . in fact , this year alone , sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from being resolved : the minsk ceaseless truce agreements are not in place , and the armed conflict may escalate at any moment . russia has withdrawn from its number of nuclear treaties , and the kremlin recently put iskander missiles , which can transport medium-range nuclear devices , into kaliningrad , near polish borders . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why should america try to undermine europe rather than seek closer cooperation in order to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national-security issue . so , it seems , the us is becoming friends again – or perhaps just arresting itself before the dispute resumes . at the same time , why should america try to undermine europe , rather than seeking closer cooperation to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ?
the report , a product of several several months of debate within germany ’s foreign foreign-policy and security community , identifies germany its contemporary values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and the international order built upon universal norms . ” as gauck declared , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation ” and continued adaptation ” of that order . achieving that objective requires germany to become a “ shaping power , ” a state with a capacity to solve the problems , and a capacity to resolve the conflicts affecting all or parts of the international community . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states , geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with resource affordability and technological proficiency – remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual influence on international politics . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others , and to forge and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
with his actual performance , trump succeeded in drawing enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , rather than just from the pis-curfavorable crowds , owing in part to his public greeting by opposition leader lech wałęsa , booed by pis supporters and remains the ongoing destination of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and outspoken critic of the pis government , concluded : “ “ i believe trump ’s talk has been done very well . ” he did not utter a single negative word on the european union , germany or france . he made robust allusions to poland of its own history , and made it extremely flattering to the us as poles did . and he implicitly condemned gazprom ’s own monopolistic policies , promising to help poland help its gas deliveries .
add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate at least four percentage points higher than the world average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and the exchange-rate crisis looks highly unlikely . but this does not mean that there are risks . on the contrary , in doing so , china has a powerful inclination to rein in its volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . given that all this activity comes down to an offshore renminbi market that is small in scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system , the outcome of china ’s hesitancy about financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility – spain remains controllable . the key will be getting markets and policymakers on the same page .
if your behavior is good – ie , you are not drinking , beating your wife , and , of course , giving money to the church – you are all fine . even young men study for priesthood is receiving very weak philosophical process , and this is accomplished purposefully . in the church boasting of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems at least startling . many of russia ’s bishops practically declare a flock : you are supposed to listen , not think or argue . to be sure , trust is a matter of heart , and to some extent .
as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a specific occupation , including journalists , are not granted any form of immunity from such kinds of high-profile criminal charges . moreover , it must be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are released in turkey , with full daily circulation amounting to nearly five million copies . free speech and press freedom ensures that turkey ’s a constitution and treaty organization are assured . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over government . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved itself a leading guarantor of freedom of expression , mostly via its judicial reform .
true , there are some signs that us authorities will do just that in the south china sea . but these countries would be just as wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries as long as it acts responsibly and under the rules set for all of them . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for the ruling party , which can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living . america and others will have to push back in order to ensure that china does not act on this temptation . but the larger policy choices will make china ’s task ’s case ’s hold .
large speculative bubbles are rare events , to be sure . large speculative bubbles are rare events , of course . ( little bubbles , in the price of , say , an individual stock , happen all that time , and do not qualify as an answer to that question . ) but the level of contagion does depend on thinking patterns that are harder to judge . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a type of interpersonal contagion .
the right-wing ideology , as represented by the washington consensus neoliberal , market fundamentalism , was n’t much more successful , even though its failures often go unacknowledged . the last half-century has proved that while development is possible , this is not inevitable . the big communist experiment has practically ended up ( saving more for some holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . that century has just ended in a rough grip on simplistic ideologies , both on the one hand and on the other side of the right . socialism had its own court day , and it was found wanting .
micro-targeting has proven most effective not to win over undecided voters , but to deter votes altogether . second , with intra-european migration having increased , almost 15 million europeans residing in eu countries other than their own . as populists well known , they have become notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections because of difficulties registering in their host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and being overly complex absentee-voting processes . by gathering or purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment an electorate to strategic clusters that use complex algorithms and then deliver personalized online to the most susceptible electorate . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in core states that he needs to win electoral college .
though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered a viable alternative for the us dollar since world war ii , often provide better dollar stores of value that are less prone to low inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar at the share of global foreign-exchange reserves . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , there have been only three “ reserve currencies ” that dominate the us : gold , the british pound , and the american dollar . even if the chinese authorities did manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that they will in fact become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not quickly fixed . it is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . at the same time , the rest of the world might not be willing to erect claims against china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency .
in weighing which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround ought to apply to other european countries , one has to distinguish between what government can and what remains the responsibilities of business , workers , and societies at large . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was closer to 4 % of gdp , arguably not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at the time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other european countries run deficits that are higher than germany ’s until ten years ago . the one area where government has obviously been in charge is public finance . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances came in large part from spending cuts .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we have to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . this involves moving beyond closed , question-and-answer processes typical of the laboratory and applying our ideas in society , earlier and more often than ever before . to see the way things work in reality , we must construct living labs , that is , communities willing to try new ways to do things ( blunt , acting like guinea ) . an example of such a living lab is the “ open data town , ” one that i launched with the town of trento in italy , complete with telecoms italia , telefónica , research university university fondazione bruno kessler , the design institute , and local companies . importantly , this living lab has the consent and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that being involved in a gigantic experiment , one whose goal is to devise a better way of life .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it must use economic policies to advance its external goal .
trade-offs also pervade environmental policies : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to meet other issues . canberra , trade-offs are an inherent dimension of life . to remedy the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . we all recognize this from our privately-issued public budgets as well . taking cheaper wine can be the splurge on dessert .
london – the british election that prime minister theresa may ’s call for june 8 is transforming the outlook for britain ’s european politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the way a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party appears to indicate . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expected to inflict on britain of internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory may ultimately produce an even more stunning reversal , such as napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after destroying all opposition in western europe . britain ’s globally pro-european progressive forces could still snatch a victory from the jaws of defeat for three related causes . for one thing , by bringing forward the british election , may have effectively extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 to 2022 .
it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world has to deal with a built-in advantage to china ’s own exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change . elsewhere , that type of turmoil has democratic safety valves . from east to west , us politics appears to function in ways that are , in the form of diplomacy , suboptimal . small wonder , then , that an epic us premier is thinking to favor some kind of political loosening . then again , perhaps we ’re lucky that things wo n’t get much worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . ever since the 1986 single european act dismantled the restrictions on work across other eu member countries , the continent has constituted a single labor market – at least in theory . the process of integration was designed to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one eu country to another . on this vision , the eu ’s residents had a nation to lose , and a continent to gain . yet some recent electoral outcomes indicate that they were more worried about losing states .
with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more room to pursue countercyclical policies , responding to voters ’ changing priorities . a better alternative would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have more say in the eu . but rising animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both lender and debtor countries means more federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . common political institutions , accountable to voters across the eurozone , would give a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage germany ’s force . one option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone in which elected national representatives have more say .
bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is , as is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g-20 established its primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like the fiscal-policy response and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the need to disavow trade protectionism and the rest of the “ beggar-thy-neighbor ” policies , it has also put some pressure on governments on what can not be done . more recently , however , as the g-20 made efforts to reconcile divergent national economic concerns and top-down strategies , it was far less successful relative to its starting meetings in washington and london in 2009 . in those respects , the g-20 was an obvious step forward .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable – which comprises america ’s largest companies ’ chief executive – with a combined annual revenue of over $ 7 trillion , updated its long-time acceptance of corporate purpose . it is not just shareholders , ceos say , their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , providers , community , and the environment . in fact , shareholders have come in last at the ceos of a new listing . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and the declaration of principal author , in his evident exhilaration , reports that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting a declaration of independence .
for example , the neurogenesis of dentate gyrus , which is stifled by acute and chronic stress , has been elevated through numerous antidepressant therapies . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also result in structural changes in brazil – do not become fully arrested , making a new generation of anti-depressant medications . still , one of the problems with many contemporary medications is that , even with therapy , a recurrence of major depression is very high – around 70-80 % . if so , new antidepressant drugs would have to target what appears to be progressive neurodegenerative changes in brazil , which we infer is elevated because recurrence of depression is so high under currently available treatments . for example , the neurogenesis of dentate gyrus , which is stifled by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by numerous antidepressant treatments .
that , too , is the view set by betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua chua are the reason why asian-americans like me are in therapy . ” tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what abilities they have , and thus appears to lean toward the “ smart ” side of a “ clever or lucky ” choice . chua would reply that reaching the high level of achievement yields far-reaching satisfaction , and that the only way to do so is through hard work . stanley prosecutions , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , have studied suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . in fact , he believes that family pressure is an important factor .
mostly they enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , similar to jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . likewise , many more names might have been added at the top of the list . in some cases , they are individuals like president hugo chávez of venezuela ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . one is that a surprising set of populist leaders has already managed to come to power in recent years . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have already managed to come to power in recent years .
so one of the “ unintended ” consequences ” ” ” of a bill might be to add welcome recruits for marriage ranks , even though such recruits are of a historically unusual amount . after far soul-searching , i voted overwhelmingly in favor of a bill , though without any acute sense that i have been striking as an explosion on freedom . families are having fewer and fewer babies , with more and fewer babies born out of wedlock . fewer and fewer people bothering themselves to marry each other , and your marriage is considered less and less as a lifelong union . there is an obvious status benefit to the minority ; no obvious harm is made to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are unhealthy .
setting the right example is another crucial form of communication for leaders . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama shown himself to be a talented communicator . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government salaries in 2007 , then-prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo that he would forgo the raise himself . in the wake of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily cut their salaries as a means of communicating concern to their employees and public opinion . ronald reagan was a master of well selected anecdote .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only in the fight against common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also in treating a host of different infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now threaten to become incurable . with the g-7 leaders committed , in a recent joint declaration to addressing the problem of antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) , this is time for a more inclusive g20 – and china , because it chairs the group for the first time – to take the fight to the next one level . failure to address amr affects everyone , regardless of their nationality , or their countries ’s level of development . indeed , by 2050 , more than ten million people could be dying as caused by amr , up from around 700,000 today , with china and india each home some one million sufferers . at that point , the estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp is already gone .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a stark reminder that the ascension of china ’s next generation of leaders to assume power in 2012 may turn out to be the most important development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign started in 1978 . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first , with little or no personal memories of the tumult and hardship endured during the mao zedong years . forgetting that history could doom china to repeat past errors ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and establish freedom for its leader . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . two , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , already live just 46 years old .
in this set of possible results , one perspective stands out : the insecurity of europe ’s role in a future global system . in order to prevent the inexorable fall , europe must come to terms with a clear set of choices on three fundamental issues . first , eu leaders must determine ways to resolve the euro ’s crisis . for example , the cyber super bug destroys the networks upon which our way of life has risen , leading to their economic , demographic , and environmental breakdown . at the same time , there is the scenario of the chaos of the eu .
if not , why should asia ’s “ net lenders , ” particularly china , continue to fund speculation against themselves ? but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory demands ) , combined with negative real interest rates , caused financial institutions to force down , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , growing illiquidity , and over-exits . the question is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling the plaza accord , in which their five major economies agreed to depreciate the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . past experience has taught china the true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms , not easy money and competitive devaluation . the american dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort .
we have seen buildings , not only hamas ’s former headquarters of hamas , still at rubble . and the good traffic agreement , with new cars smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphia phi route ” route ” that runs along the egyptian frontier . but the real life here , too , is traumatic , and has been severely constrained . houses are riddled with bullet holes ; they keep warm . no electricity exists for as much as eight hours per day .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy in a decade . china and hong kong have seen prices plummet too recently , just too . many central bankers are like the proverbial general who is planning to fight the last war . but , unlike a backward-looking military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce inevitable damaging , rather than merely worrisome , risks . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a result might fail to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation .
that plainly falls on america ’s agenda , particularly with the neoconservative “ doyen ” john bolton back at the white house as the us national security adviser . the world needs to steadfastly resist the next poignant american military adventures . even if the us now absents itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block the iran deal with the outside world . extraterritorial sanctions are the second way that america might kill the jcpoa . the first would be to foment war .
critics of america ’s unilateralism point out that even if the us thwarted its efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world one way or another . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight , to be sure that they could not be wished away . it probably was in response to this impasse , which china pushed ahead with establishing the aiib . channeling that influence via a newly created international organization , they argue , tends to temper raw power grabs . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but that can not be applied today without flexibility and strategic sense .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs , without really saying so much at all . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses , a worldview exemplified by his declaration that america ’s allies need more contributions to security alliances . trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike . his muddled statements offer little insight into what sort of us foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes obvious , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good .
in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are by far the largest r & d investors in absolute purchasing-power-parity terms , spending more than twice what japanese firms are doing . moreover , global multinational corporations are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other oecd countries . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us over the past decade while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . for example , in the us or elsewhere , multinational corporations accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same as a decade earlier . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their research r & d activity in america , often in institutional clusters around research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s ’s ’s ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to official statistics . given that the share of urban dwellers accounted for only 18 % – even more than 30 years ago – this is remarkable progress . yet it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries at a similar stage of development experienced faster urbanization than their industrialization did . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that china ’s cities , big and tiny , lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income derives mainly from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of identity . today , iraq may find itself on the brink of civil war between shiites and sunnis . a free electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated by the nearly combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments are paving the way for new interpretations . iran under its new , more radical president is moving the irresistibly toward iran ’s nuclear capacity .
this has made it much easier for lula , in particular , to buck his socialist allies and to distance himself from chávez as early as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyo . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on drug traffickers in mexico , the unrelenting offensive that follows a precedent set by uribe in his dealings with the farc , was also helped , owing to his help , in the same way , by economic growth has muted domestic opposition . at the same time , the emerging mauribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic influence , because things have begun to change in cuba as well as where fidel castro formally handed over his presidency to his big brother , raúl . last january , lula made a visit to the island with a segment of the prominent brazilian business and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . latin america is obsessed with this transition ; both uribe and uribe have no intention of letting chávez lead the way .
before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts turns out to be unfolding , within which the various players and their goal is clear . the first process began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych had duped the european union and its nato leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine entered a customs union with russia , in exchange for a european pile of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin evidently accomplished his own political objective , namely to bring ukraine , which had been drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is not known is how many more acts this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how , it stops .
although gdp has increased from the old age 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice . but there is an even bigger question that lurks well behind the gge : can norms truly curtail state behavior ? most experts agree that a global treaty on cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such suggestions at the un ) . but , beyond formal covenants , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and universally shared expectations of proper behavior among a group ( which establishes a common law ) . in scope , these constraints can vary from a global to a plurilateral individual , to a bilateral extent .
to be sure , the purpose of monetary policy also has redistributive effects . nonetheless , monetary policy involves having a much more awkward , indirect , imprecise path of selecting winners and losers rather than fiscal policies . think of the different effects of interest rates on debtors versus lenders . independent central banks can occasionally do the distress for politicians , but at least they can be used as scapegoats when necessary-facing political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . such considerations should guide the choices of what will follow the european stability pact .
as a result , though low interest rates and nonenabled firms , rather than corporate demand , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing their full-year target . if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , the credit and money supply might have grown more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . in fact , at the same time , china ’s housing price has been skyrocketing in recent months . unlike america ’s , china did not suffer from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . the government was overly generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by the fear of the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , had already been overly cautious in managing the bubbles when they re-emerged .
erdogan ’s islamic revolution , too , has extended into the education system with the introduction of a markedly different religious curriculum . to return turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the bid for an arabic obligatory in his schools . now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at forging turkey ’s pre-eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s ’s role as guardians of the secular state and enhance governmental control of the judiciary . now a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision is hard to imagine . erdogan believes that by exercising turkey ’s mediation capacity , he will recover the burdens of his ottoman forbears as peace and security guarantors in the mashreq .
so both he and giscard created the european council ( composed of european heads of governments ) that now form a major player in the european union 's institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration that emerged in fruition a generation later . change for the better could emerge merely from practical initiatives , rather than from sunday speeches . thus , europe 's integration had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , not rules . he remained skeptical of notions of irreversible progress .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the outlook suddenly look far clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 . while the probability that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the illusion of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that the political preconditions are certain to stabilize as long as periods for renegotiating an uk-eu relationship stretch again from a new , soft april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond .
following the irish “ no , ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato thinking about a “ coalition of the willing ” ? can the most resolute pro-integration europeans leave the pack , without being paralyzed by an reluctant coalition ? can the most resolute pro-integration europeans leave the pack , without being paralyzed by an reluctant coalition ? to be sure , iranians “ no ” are not the equals in the eu of what the afghan quagmire represents to nato . but it also represents a major setback and challenge to their institutional , political , and even psychological character .
the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . the struggle against the islamic state is not a strictly conventional war , but it can not be a hot one . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of the scourges of this era . the us can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon because it , like netanyahu and netanyahu , believes as an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . what is required , too , is a daybreak of realism .
failing that , the left will come to power , reversing years of reform and progress . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( to boost the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance as has its determination to hang on and even widen the reforms julia zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . mexico ’s economy has now had it a good few years ; not very hard to achieve given a booming america next door and ample liquidity in global capital markets . but a currency board will also help to kick-start financial intermediation to benefit small and medium-size capital-intensive firms through experience of recurrent crises and bad credit . small and medium-size companies need to become part of mexican capitalism .
it is partly self-defense , partly assertion of the rule of law under difficult circumstances , and partly constructive efforts to redress the causes of frustration . it demands a sense of community responsibility that accompanies and addresses the painful modernizing process . indeed , people who are suspended between a missing past and one future are not yet in need of help . such aid will not yield immediate results , but awareness of the medium-term – meaning that readiness to face it by delaying immediate gratification – is also an indication of a liberal order . at the same time , fighting al qaeda is not waging war at all .
fear of another islamist takeover is the second main argument against toppling assad ; but the longer he remains in power , the larger gains made by islamists on the ground . groups akin to the syrian national council are freed up by associations of individuals and groups , with many of them outside syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups inside syria , which are just as diverse and divided . these are groups that criticize the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda or be perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . it is one among these found groups that radical islamists gain a foothold .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators , and politicians on both sides of the aisle got a narrow , private-sector elite – mostly on wall street – that of almost all the upside to the housing boom . the downside was shoved onto the rest of society , especially the relatively uneducated and underprivileged , who are now losing homes , the jobs , the hopes of their children , or all of the aforementioned above . to be sure , these people did not , in turn , cause the crisis . but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-managing . at the same time , however , they are being paid to do just that .
french leaders have demonstrated the inability to communicate efficiently or to apply past experiences in analyzing contemporary threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles over minor controversies . the recent downturn in france ’s tangle of industrial output has produced large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small , medium-size companies . the unemployment rate reaches around 11 % , with an average of 3.3 million employees registered as living in october . at the same time , the political crisis is sapping the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . to this end , there is still much to be done . in 2012 – two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening the economy more quickly – the formal rate of poverty reached a 22 % low , less than half the rate in 1994 . escaping the abject destitution , although an important milestone , is not the same thing as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic insecurity . to this end , a great deal remains to be done .
yet , far from making any space for diplomacy , trump advisor sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the idea that us secretary of defense rex tillerson will debate military affairs is simply nonsensical . ” if that does n’t change anytime soon , the us may , as then-british prime minister david cameron wrote of world war i , “ “ [ muddle ] toward war ” so far . but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have any significant say over military matters ? south korean political leaders also need to avoid trump at this intensifying war rhetoric . once a march into war , there was little room left for diplomacy .
alemán , too , faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular sore in the party ’s liberal wing . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency rise sharply . though a three-way race is sheer speculation on this score , it makes plain that it provides ortega with the best of all electoral worlds . the business interests that finance his political campaigns confront a difficult dilemma : is it preferable to align itself with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or to advocate a new , democratic power and risk helping ortega win ? it is so tempting that ortega seems capable of helping to rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his own political interests .
but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private business investment stable , for friedman the key was to keep the money supply – the level of purchasing power in readily spendable forms in the hands of companies and households -- in the stable . a relatively minor , engineering of mean , one might even say , the next . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary - that the private economy on its own might well succumb to unbearable instability ­­ - and that strategic , powerful , but constrained economic interventions by government were essential to maintaining stability . a difference of opinion , which had rested on different judgments about how the world worked , which might ( and ultimately was ) have been resolved through empirical research , one might say . and you would have been about half what you otherwise would have been .
the prospect of america ’s monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the euro stands at 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of the year , and the yen stands at 14 % . the result has been the us dollar ’s appreciation against the euro and yen . but speculators are thinking ahead , moving away from commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to bring ’s price downward forward today . the fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , has already functioned .
i am also aware that goldstone , a dedicated , unimpeachable human-rights lawyer , and advocate , had shared similar concerns when he had originally stepped up . but he was able to work with the council as president to secure the deal that he felt confident would permit a mandate to be interpreted in such a way as allowing his team to address the actions taken by the two parties to the conflict . this pattern of action and inaction by the council has given greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme court of human rights is inherently anti-israel . at the same time , i was aware that the un human rights council had used a repeat of israel ’s condemnations over the past two years , but focused very little attention on major human-rights violations in other countries . i decided that i was unable to commit the un mission for these reasons .
the net effect of such brutal actions was a widespread loss of faith in the system . during the early cold war , communism and the former soviet union had considerable soft power . much of the communists led the opposition against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was the wave of the future . though in theoretically communism aimed at establishing a system of class justice , lenin maintain domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , wide censorship , and ubiquitous whistleblowers . but soviet soft-power was undercut by exposing stalin to crimes in 1956 and the repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 .
coronado , california – most people think not of charles darwin as an psychologist . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , geert wilders , locke , kant , sighauer , nietzsche , and others , just might describe only current mental events and behaviors ; they could not explain their causes . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field , too . before darwin , philosophical speculation has shaped our psychological understanding of us . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution has affected the shape of our thinking as profoundly as it has the shape of our bodies .
as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , points out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science : “ one can discern good science as it happens , but important science can only be viewed in a rear-view mirror . ” indeed , a review of the impact of any particular research project is difficult to evaluate . when salvador ’s alexandria , my university ’s microbiology professor , was awarded the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , acting eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon was all those who cried on the award . even preeminent researchers may underestimate the importance of their findings at the time they secure them . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table by the time .
in fact , america ’s tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . and , when fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes among a supermajority of middle americans ( number one , third , and fourth-quintiles ) voters . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was wrong to have paid a lower tax rate than his treasury secretary . the us tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is the key economic problem in the united states , with those at the pinnacle of nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century .
a critical issue now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as platform employees with whom they have employment contracts , and for whose customers they provide with services . california , an american state with over two million freelance contractors , has tried to resolve that question with a new law , california ’s assembly bill 5 , which codifies legitimate criteria of seeking categorize workers . to win political support with ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many kinds of freelance contractors , such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate operatives , on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , interact directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but , at the same time , ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers driving for platform companies like the ride-sharing service uber and lyft and the food-delivery company doordash . applying the three-year “ abc test ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker qualifies for jobless insurance , ab5 makes firms far harder to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than their employees .
making matters worse , the modi government , for the first time , has invoked section 7 of the rbi act that allows it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on matters of public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths to suggest that more than interest rate hikes are at stake . the government is particularly unhappy with the rbi to clean up india ’s banks , many of them unencumbered by a huge volume of non-performing assets and avoid the risks of construction in other parts of the financial system . such actions are squeezing state-owned banks , ’ ability to lend to politically well-connected customers . to be sure , government ministers can not emerge right out and say this .
of course , abe did not confront the kind of sky-high expectations sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama had done . but , after two decades of leaders who – except junichiro koizumi – promised little and accomplished less , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his pledges . as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well become everyone ’s toughest electoral adversary . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambitions ; he set a bold economic-reform agenda , promising to boost japan at this stage of its global influence . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy .
in many such patients , a doubling of a plavix dose , and checking the platelet function with a point-of-care test to reassure suppression , can override a lack of response . there are alternative drugs , such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , which can be used instead of plavix in order to circumvent the problem . the story of the interferon , given for just one year of patients with hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking . this variation in the genome is an exceptionally common occurrence , present with 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and above 50 % of those of asian ancestry . those individuals carrying at least one copy of a gene variant that do not permit the body to metabolize plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent .
the repercussions of a genuine cessation of the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders . repercussions would be felt elsewhere in mexico , where the drug cartels grind to the entire country , and to the us , the world ’s largest source of demand . likewise , west africa would become embroiled in the region , having become by far the main transit point on south american drugs headed to europe . if chávez ’s venezuelan turn into a kind of narco-state in which regime acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . after all , war , colombia , and elsewhere frequently unites peoples while peace divides them .
at its heart lies the realization that reducing poverty demands both quick economic growth and targeted investments directed against the poorest of the poor . the key , yet again , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . thus , it promotes critical areas of market-oriented reform and growth , including measures aimed at expanding the financial sector and promoting exports and liberalizing foreign direct investment . a second pillar of reducing poverty is targeted investments for the poor , particularly for the rural poor . rapid economic growth is meant to rely on the private sector , including foreign direct investment .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism might well play out directly in russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . in the middle east , countries try to figure out whom they should be contained . among frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . the struggle to prioritize the threats is not exclusive to western governments . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on every side . domestically , he is stuck between the promises that he has made ( for example , mnuchin rule ” ” that taxes will not be slashed for the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes downsizing the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the us administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more bedrooms and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time coming . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of filling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . in view of trump ’s belief that international negotiations are just a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin , who , like his boss , lacks a government experience – persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms , like open trade , is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreements reached in paris later this month at the un climate change conference ? what emerged in paris was actually a better one , having allowed negotiators to agree on practical steps in the right direction . not one sooner was the accord announced on december 12 than the debate had erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the paris accord was not committed firmly to limiting global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but no such commitment would have been credible .
unfortunately , they were educated at the religious seminaries espousing a profoundly intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began moving into ghettos . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving into areas of social life that the state had failed to dismally , particularly education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , rising numbers of india ’s muslims began looking for connections with muslims elsewhere around the world .
the government can not pay unemployed workers their pensions because socialism bankrupted its finances . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ a significant slack , producing goods they demanded through proletarian consumers , and because of their maximalist performance , defending the interests of proletarian savers actually paying back their bank loans . nowadays , private firms employ more of china ’s urban working class than do state-run companies ( soes ) . why most pundits miss the fact that aid workers are protesting , not in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in socialist bastions of the northeastern state , represents a mystery . workers do not protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no job in the socialist shenyang .
the average winning margin among the top eight world cup national teams has steadily declined , from just over two goals in the 1950 ’s to around 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games played at the last tournament , and not only among the top eight national teams . a drop in the victorious fringe is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from may 16 to may 32 national teams , many of them new and rather inexperienced . but , while we see inequality and club-level exclusion , the reverse is true for contests between national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning a european championship , as gabon ( romania ) , red-star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did .
in fact , the us budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue-chip one at which interest rates stay low but gdp growth ambles along at around 2 % . in a meb paper , the real interest rate on 3 month us treasuries is expected to remain below 1 % over a decade . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) short-term interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked rise in long-term trend growth , as the administration ’s projections would be historically anomalous . moreover , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely . currently , ten-year treasuries offer more than triple the yield on three-month us treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of the politics achieved by berlusconi , as did the institutional feature he abolished . one of his administration ’s last act was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . under the new electoral rules , the seats are allotted to party proportion to the vote , but a special-purpose provision to forge a pre-electoral deal : an electoral coalition that wins the majority of votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . a new electoral system transforms politicians ’ incentive and might induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments . this outcome would be greatly accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term .
and he has had some success , to the detriment of his economic growth . though the current 7 % rate is comfortable , it remains far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . given the need for continued economic restructuring – and given longstanding demographic trends holding down the supply of labor , pre-2008 gdp growth rates remain unlikely . this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading – rather than an unsustainably , credit-led growth model – is the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to assessing wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off has .
big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be affected by a changing climate . for example , how will a city cope with increased flooding risk , and how will farmland be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe ? addressing the climate challenge demands much deeper collaboration between governments and the private sector in order to boost green investment . we must ensure that our infrastructure is built to address the heightened impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for breaking down the climate risks that investment projects pose . here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help by adaptation in numerous ways .
“ more than half of this battle is taking place on the media battlefield , [ for ] us find ourselves in a media battle in a race to the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” the speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of the open . terrorists have skillfully adapted to fighting wars in today ’s media age , but , for the most part , the american and american governments of other democracies have not . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media links ” aimed at manipulating the elite ’s point of view .
of course , exemplary and punitive damages in order to discourage conduct inimical to society do exist in the statute books . recent experiments by filipino lawyers to prosecute citizen claims on environmental tort , and human-rights abuses before american courts prove just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who have acted negligently or impunity . but philippine courts have refused to resort to using such damaging awards as an instrument to control behavior , particularly by businessmen . all of this helps to explain why sulpicio ’s line , the owner of the star ’s princess , has remained stranded in commercial operations , despite having spent many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have not made it sufficiently costly to sustain non-seaworthy vessels .
america ’s congressional committee contemplates legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that participate in the project despite the fact that such companies are contractually obliged to see work through . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs a pipeline project , america ’s eu ambassador to germany has been acting more like an “ occupation officer ” than as a german diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angry . but , beyond fueling angst , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty adds momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the middle of its internal economic crisis – the consequence of the fact that it made europe saddling southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash that severely diminished their self-imposed competitiveness within europe .
indeed , this convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , eu officials ’ difficulty in tracking domestic and eu territory with no border controls . all have withdrawn controls at their shared borders , and have embraced a joint visa policy for non-member eu citizens . it is certainly handy to have the route of traveling from zurich to oslo as a domestic travel , with no passport checks to vacating and arriving contend . and it is undeniably convenient to have driven from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at every border one crosses .
yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data-privacy laws – than on developing long-term strategies to become competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe to identify areas for mutual accommodation . europeans have become dependent on such firms , all of which are based in countries like china or america . defining such a strategy could help europe to identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with potential for strategic cooperation is the development of aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states .
the federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . so , too , in america , the smaller banks that mostly finance small , medium-size firms have been all but neglected . the us federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks while allowing hundreds of these crucially important , smaller lenders to go bankrupt . but lending , too , would be impeded even if its banks were healthier . just adding liquidity while continuing its current austerity policies wo n’t re-invigorate the spanish economy .
the world learned that lesson following the 1973 arab-israel war . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands for punishing them for their support of israel . but the oil-destined oil for america and the netherlands shifted to other countries like japan , while oil-destined for other countries found its way to the us and the netherlands . when the dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other us importers all suffered roughly the same level of shortcoming , paying equally damaging high prices . oil is the fungible commodity , and the markets are clear on a shared price .
new york – with graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown , the world has been horrified by graphic images of myanmar ’s military junta . that crackdown continues under the cover of darkness . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear is on the rise . the hindu monks have withdrawn , and the fuzzy normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal cities , and ex-capital .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that such sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the 1992 maastricht treaty . admittedly , poland ’s economic performance after the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by sluggish growth , high inflation , and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , mounting debt , a collapsing currency , and inadequate infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its inclination to succumb to populist demands , and vested interests accounted for much of the rest of the country ’s economic weakness . nor , of course , has ever envisaged that greece will face its current economic trauma . the underlying issue is whether european monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions for those breaking the eu .
again , it would have been ludicrously expensive , or simply impossible , to have similar capabilities achieved during earlier periods of life . these include flush toilets , automobiles , electrical power , long-distance communication , advanced information processing , and so forth . thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that kept growth open to all of humanity , we should reflect how far we arrived . at the end of the roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could have bought the nomenclator , a slave tasked with memorizing the names and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a basic smartphone is better today than having the entourage of dozens or even thousands , nomenclator-like assistants .
as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower that – precisely for that reason – pursuing its foreign-policy interests in an utterly unsentimental way . vital interests driven by chinese policy are internal modernizing , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( comprising taiwan ) . insofar as this happens , the united states will no longer replace itself as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates this role . in the long run , these interests are unlikely to change . that may sound simple ; but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s rules-based international order .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set in motion several large exchange-rate adjustments . salaries and prices plummeted , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of its agricultural goods , which constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantages , face high hurdles in entering rich countries ’ markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some argue that it has become significantly undervalued . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to turn up the vagaries of markets . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , grew sharply in value .
yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lesson of either episode . not only have they failed to mitigate risk , underscored in a crash of 2007 , that new retail investors introduce into the us market ; they have , in fact , aggravated them , by enabling – and even encouraged – those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks . not only did they fail to mitigate risk , underscored by the meltdown of 2007 , that new retail investors introduce into their markets ; in fact , they aggravated , by enabling – and even encouraging – those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than , say , that caused by balance-sheet distress in the financial industry .
faced with this uncertainty , they are not readjust their spending ; instead , they abstain from spending until the mists clear , sending the economy into a tailspin . it is the shock , not the adjustment to it , that level . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . but i doubt that it has , so , too . when shocks to the system emerge , agents are unaware of what will happen next .
beyond that , well-designed financial-sector taxes may help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists seem to agree that governments , particularly in the advanced industrial nations with an aging population , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . taxes on speculative activity may have encouraged banks to shift more of their focus from producing their crucial societal role in providing credit . the us financial sector imposed huge externalities on the rest of society . america ’s financialized the world with toxic mortgages ; and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be imposed against it .
after all , doing so implies that economic events are much less predictable ( and economists less omniscient ) than they are like imagining . but public reactions to them , along with recent oil-price spikes , can well account for changing market psychology . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such changes . so , while those things do happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to the words of ahmadinejad just as carefully as they do to those of bernanke in their attempts to grasp the course of world ’s stock markets . economists might be reluctant to focus on public thinking and how it interacts with price changes , world-class news stories , and speculative dynamics .
new york – in their effort to pass america ’s bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush ’s administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . contagion soon spread across east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations stretching like russia and brazil . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago brought the banks , corporations , and the governments to its knees . but , for most asians , an economic armageddon is far more recent . a bonfire roiled the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 .
one ought to know the moral figure of any action one is contemplating . of course , plato 's purpose in dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knows of a superior definition than the unacceptable ones he is offered by euthyphro , he does not reveal it . and , to be sure , one must be as well aware of what one does not know as of what one does . rather , plato 's point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro 's capacity can not truly be aware that prosecuting his own father is actually the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes with this type of self-examination is crucial in every decision .
after all , the agriculture sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with short-supply water , farmers have become less able to feed the world ’s ’s ’s ’s population . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean drinking water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation facilities . and , in much of africa , an encroaching desert has displaced many more people and exacerbated tensions between farmers and herders . moreover , abatement , water scarcity has meant food scarcity . one billion people globally lack access to clean water and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation .
emerging economies need to confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is only the first step ; it is the second one . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth , driven by the massive military of younger laborers , is an end in point . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . brazil ’s deregulation of the agricultural sector and encouragement of r & d has enabled brazilian agricultural research projects to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including by designing a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate .
since the g-20 ’s meeting in cannes last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debts , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established rules on fiscal discipline , and implemented a wide range of labor – and product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies the urgent need for far more conclusive reform . second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members deliver policies on strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . we are confident that europe will act jointly to meet these challenges , and we will continue to support such efforts because europe ’s stability and growth matter for us all . to be meaningful , the message must be backed up with action : g20 members need to demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward rebuilding economic growth and creating jobs , and that they will be held accountable for meeting their commitments fully .
whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where , again , we should do little to enhance our endeavors ( which are thought to be cynical ) . refusing to prioritize , deal primarily with the most publicized problems is all wrong . the eu made choices only seem less clear , less democratic , and less efficient . they need to work with bureaucracies that are intrinsically disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , look instead for ending up as anything but number one . but not talking about priorities makes the need to prioritize go farther .
this is true in most countries , including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though there are few , like norway , where humans have a more realistic view . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be better informed . as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it really is , but still higher than the level they would consider ideal . the point is not to recover from endless comparisons or arcane math , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful debate about inequality based on concrete figures , with the goal of establishing a clear goal . correcting these misperceptions will turn people into opinions of redistributive policies .
likewise , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or company access to america ’s financial system would generate the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately following communism ’s fall . in addition , those sanctions have maimed iran ’s poor economy every day . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , whose primary claim to leadership is that he culminated in the penury of the early post-soviet years – to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize their stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
cambridge – over the past two years , matters have been different , to say the least . the city of london , lower manhattan and a few other centers have become money machinery that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and privately folk immoderately wealthy . many financial firms have shrank their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have gone out of business completely . against that background , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector had soared . university leaders like me spent a lot of our time persuading them to recycle part of their bargains to their older classrooms .
in a february meeting , the american ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart on reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion should kyrgyz shut down the american bases . both diplomats were conversing in russia . “ visibly flustered , ” ( the us ambassador ) temporarily lost his ability to speak russia , and began spluttering in the chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” ” ” ” ” according to a sprawling american diplomatic cables obtained by web site wikileaks.org . from a russia perspective , the horse-trading surrounding the bases has been intense . indeed , us policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians , who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan .
but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to envisage . it is time for france to start questioning its own economic model , and next door to economic growth . in a recent declaration about upstream suburbs , chirac declared : “ “ we will need to draw all the lessons from this crisis when the time comes and order has been rebuilt and with lots of courage and lucidity . ” but , ultimately , the best way to address them and prevent their resurgence is to ensure that there are economic opportunities available to those who are determined to try . after all , social assistance with little hope for individual improvement does not suffice .
we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and a million refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuel the fire . we believe they are going faster than us in acquiring and processing our knowledge , because they grew up with the tools and techniques we had lacked at their age . we dedicated them to propelling our country toward a new level of growth and development , one that we have now nominated a cabinet minister of their age and produced a special youth council . we can not , and will not , allow this in our own country to happen . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance , and to instill it in our children both through education and our own example .
how do you tighten fiscal policy to make it more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in only three years , as happened in ireland in 2004 – and in brazil in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ? we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates generate massive expansions of credit expansion . to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and it is absurd to try . in countries with higher fares than in germany , but with equal borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to ask policymakers in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or to cut public investment through an immense magnitude needed to stave off catastrophe strikes against reality .
the problem is that this kind of conspiracy of evasion may not work , and fischer ’s speech is that he is the first cabinet minister in office to say so in public , even though he pretends to say so in terms of personal capacity . in the past , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would together regularly press the case for closer integration , despite a british reluctance . today , however , both france and germany are less unified on a shared european strategy , and their commitment to european integration looks less strong . but the bottom line is that constitutional change can be wrought only by unanimous agreement , and by several eu member governments , beginning with the united kingdom , would resist any overtly federalist agenda . as a result , the french government is understandably reluctant to push ahead with the british if there is a chance of a softer compromise in its future .
the enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of modern industrial policies that can help propel brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . critics refer to it as a misguided effort that creates only more distortions and a retard growth . to my mind , the intellectual case for activist policies , as made by dani rodrik and the ricardo hausmann of harvard – is powerful . but rodrik and hausmann also shows that getting such policies right yields exacting requirements . markets to innovation and new-found ideas work poorly , and to governments can help address those market failures .
to be sure , gender-imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but the evolutionary psychology that stresses competition for females may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt . those among the native-born populations with the highest incomes and levels of education will always remain worse off as long as they have to compete against vast numbers of young male immigrants . to be sure , gender-imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but , though the problem can not be “ “ solved , ” ” ” ” ” ” understanding it can help to limit damage , not least by enabling leaders to avoid policies that either do not benefit or exacerbate tensions .
judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relations . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis is all the more compelling because the world ’s two largest economies are sinking into a dangerous quagmire . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . while i published a 2014 book on the china-china economic relationship , i would be the first to concede that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology in order to evaluate the behavior of national economies . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s dynamics , when two partners draw more from each other than from their inner strength .
this is the point at which many begin to use language that defines europeans by differentiation ; indeed , by contrast , america -- europe as anti-america -- is . this is the point at which many begin to use language that defines europeans by differentiation ; indeed , by contrast , america -- europe as anti-america . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european culture and america 's commerce , european profundity , and america 's materialism - these are ancient and tired topics . but how does this identity be defined ?
without increasing domestic saving – highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trade partners . with that trade diversion probably headed toward higher-cost us platforms around the world , american consumers will hit the functional equivalent of a tax hike . ironically , trump has summoned the likes of robert lighthizer , veteran of japan ’s trade battles of the 1980s to take charge against china . sadly , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as it was again back then . in both episodes , america has been in denial , bordering on delusion .
the government of hollande and prime minister jean-marc ayrault holds strong majorities at every executive and legislative level , presenting this with a rare opportunity to act . while the united nations security council is outdated in its power structure , italy still plays an essential legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member . the center-left french center-left needs to lead in conceiving a vision for a europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength . if it can renew the european model at home , one can project that success far more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turning reinforcing trust and faith in the eu , particularly among the young generation . finally , together with the united kingdom among european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has acquired .
but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated a powerful sense of shared identity , common languages , and much shared history bind arabs together despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else can one explain that the act of rebellion in tunisia led to the popular revolts in north africa to the arabian peninsula ? the third challenge , instrumental in marking the first two , will be to reinforce regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate , or purposefully , the “ unilateralist ” of the arab world . deep reforms – targeted at quality and location , rather than enrollment and diplomas – are needed to transform the learning process , unleashing the productivity growth that a young working class demands .
attitudes about male caregiving are starting to shift in the us . america ’s largest tech companies are starting to compete for their talent by offering paternity leave . who has a boss , or company , that better supports reconciling work and family obligations ? with the us having a more flexible labor force on board ? only the third of millennial men are confident in traditional ways of giving themselves hope .
in part , how fast this happens depends on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . if public-sector deleveraging is not an complete growth policy , and does not last , why is there so much focus on fiscal austerity and so little action ( akin to lip service ) on growth and employment ? muted wage growth boosts competitiveness as well as underutilized labor and capital are encouraged . but it also depends on government ’s ability and willingness to provide bridging function to a deficiency in aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investments that boost long-term growth prospects . several possibilities , rather than mutually exclusive , come to mind .
washington , d.c. : the cities of tents are filling with the sacrifices of the great depression , ” read one headline a month ago on the annual front page of massachusetts american newspapers . by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are scrutinized through european eyes , the extreme individualism that represents a key component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . the journalists report the tragic stories of middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk even without the protection of some kinds of social protection . who will pay for their expensive ways of treating cancer at a time when you lose the personal-insurance policies that came with your work ? it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-loose marketers do , that our lack of social protection makes you stronger .
warsaw : recently poland experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . as a free , or as its postcommunist proponents prefer to call it , a " not pay-as-you-go on " education , means training in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) . because of their domination to parliament , the intransigence of the postcommunists on this point made the various political parties participating in drafting poland a new constitution kowtow to their place . only by elevating the matter to the level of a " constitutional right " , say the postcommunists , can poland secure freedom and equal access to education be preserved . he has focused on whether greater " free " education for all should be made constitutional .
at the same time , governments need to clarify national water agencies ’ responsibilities and improve the capacity of water-related institutions at all levels to institute large-scale un unconventional-water programs . the private sector also has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional water sources – a role that must broaden beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , regional institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized , for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water sources . the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . best practices should be clarified , innovations identified and tested , and knowledge and experience shared .
american negotiators remain fixated on targeted reductions of about $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . so , what can be made of the agreement on may 19 ? beyond a ceasefire in tit-for-tat tariffs , the true benefits exist . in view of america ’s scope for a multilateral problem , that is largely an inconsequential objective , especially given the us ’s large and ill-timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases the us has enacted over the past six months .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as severe ecological damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous , growing middle class , and those that have yet to reap the region ’s rapid economic development , and whose health and well-being have been adversely impacted by acute problems such as air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower but still enviable , rate – and improve the quality of it . asia needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance sources of economic dynamism to emphasize both domestic , regional , and inter-regional , “ south-south ” demands . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift .
berkeley – the central insight from macroeconomics concerns the fact that familiar to john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century was familiar : there can be a huge gap between supply and demand for pretty much all currently manufactured goods and services and types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . a normal gap between the supply and demand of some subset of currently produced commodities does not pose a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities . because industries suffering from inadequate demand shed workers , industries benefit from surplus demand hiring . and this crucial fact is the source of large trouble . an economy rapidly re-balances itself and hence returns to full-employment gdp , and does so with the configuration of employment and production that are superior to current consumer preferences .
the prosecutions then started to talk about a young girl as chechen sniper , out of the family of snipers . russia 's liberals originally greeted the case of budanov as a sign that the country could address accusations that war crimes were committed in chechnya . last month , however , putin 's army prosecutor embraced colonel budanov 's argument that he was also temporarily insane when he was killing a girl and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . outraged , then , us defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed a state-owned prosecutor who seemingly is prepared to absolve a `` hero '' on all of his remaining charges . ( a rape indictment , for some unclear reason , has already backfired . )
but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum . once the team has run out , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – through necessity , rather than choice – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . a roadmap must recognize that within this protracted period of currency expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation , have been distorted , worsening wealth inequality . the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on the measures formulated during the obama administration , but that have gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional policies that have characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . these measures address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked – and when the power of such firms should be constrained . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill , to pass by the american senate , does something similar and long overdue – for banking . prior to the 1890 's , big business was widely perceived as more efficient , generally more modern , than small-business . most people saw consolidating smaller firms into fewer ; big firms as a stabilizing development that rewarded success , allowing for deeper productive investment . in retrospect , intermediate legislation – not just american , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 .
tokyo – when was the latest time you sat down to write a letter ? no , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or “ dear hillary clinton ” letter . i do not mean any email , or “ text message ” ; nor would i count a dictated message to either machine or personal assistant . the reason , i ask , is that 65,000 people actually conducted such letters to barack obama each week when he served as president of the united states . depending on a recent feature in the guardian , a white house team staffers would have , every day , chosen ten letters each day to pass on the president who would then react to them personally that evening .
perhaps they would tell the pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes in favor of better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . today , this pseumarxist theory for economic determinism was refuted once and for all . in 1992 , john major ran for reelection amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of years of rapid inflation . today , this pseumarxist theory for economic determinism was refuted once and for all . but , ultimately , they would do just what was done in each of the previous four elections – vote to a party that proclaimed “ every man for himself ” .
transactional leadership is more efficient in a stable and predictable setting , whereas an inspirational style is more likely to emerge in periods of rapid , disembodied social and political change . the transformational objectives and an inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa can make a profound effect in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . in the us , by contrast , america ’s foreign-policy formation is deeply degraded by institutions such as congress and the us constitution . as a result , one would expect less opportunities for transformational leadership in the us . but even the american constitution is equally ambiguous regarding congressional powers and foreign-policy president .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations ’ food and agriculture organization launched the interim tropical forestry action plan ( redd ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to stem the loss of forest conservation . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international efforts to stop it – an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely than ever to be effective . indeed , redd + was created as a part of the united nations framework convention on climate change , and the paris agreement that it is expected to be hammered out during the united nations climate-change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of these two agreements has been , ironically , producing the reams of expensive consultancy reports . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
it could also destabilize an already-fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . ethiopia , however , poses a dilemma for anyone who seems to care about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments reacted to the post-election crackdown by withdrawing aid temporarily . donald payne , a leader of the american house foreign affairs committee , and ana gomes , the european parliament ’s member from portugal and heads of eu observation team in the 2005 elections , has struggled to tie non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct on press freedom and other human rights . cutting aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for the nation of 80 million people .
that is why the health-care industry must play a significant part in efforts to address the challenge of population aging . old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable phase of life , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . ensuring that people work longer lives is critical to keeping them healthy . to that end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their reorienting and-development efforts toward solutions that are prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important in finding ways to stem more effectively people ’s deteriorating productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearings and vision .
a second grand transition-financing opportunity lies in blended finance or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . such initiatives bring together a broad range of public-private stakeholders and public-private actors , including multilateral organizations , to fund projects with deep environmental and social impact projects . the tropical landscapes funding facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with a un environment program , is a good illustration . the initiative brings together private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and social benefits . moreover , the blended approach helps scale up and unrisk projects , and optimize financing .
emerging markets were initially tied up in this distress only when foreign investors started pulling their money out . then the panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financially sound systems and corporate sectors that had experienced credit booms and borrowed short - and debt-burdened foreign currencies . at the moment , the panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerability of many developing countries ’ fiscal systems and corporate sectors that experienced credit booms and borrowed short - and foreign-currency currencies . to be sure , many emerging markets are now at risk of severe financial crises . but even better-performing ones , such as brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at risk of a hard landing .
this would foil financial-market speculators , who have been betting on withdrawal , is good news for both the uk and the eu . until recently , the reversal of british voters produced a 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . and if a new referendum were to be held , british voters would probably have to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because no one would dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . this would foil financial-market speculators , who have been betting on withdrawal , are good news for both the uk and the eu . almost three years ago , british voters could not truly know what they are doing when they decide by the narrow majority to leave the eu .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path toward reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . through a dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers received market incentives . mao zedong had faded two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping out his vision of economic development and modernizing the third plenum of the eleventh central committee held in december 1978 . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending the equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls was shelved .
jerusalem – in the aftermath of misguided american policies , the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states has been strengthening , and iran , despite being labeled as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” disorder , has been catapulted to regional hegemony . the result has been the emergence of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and shia-dominated iraq have run up against israel , saudi arabia , and most other sunni arab states , all of whom feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . the hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open struggle for regional dominance . iran might never have accomplished this on its own ; certainly not in so short a time .
in the neoliberal social revolutions ( less frequently noted than political and economic upheavals ) , families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church had too engaged in politics to help . the old societal structures were demolished , socialist customs and habits went out of fashion overnight , former norms and unwritten rules to be abandoned . around the world , people were left to withstand the gales of change by themselves . to be free but lonely is not easy , especially when dependency habits run ingrained . fascination with liberal freedoms once in poland and elsewhere at a bizarre moment .
likewise , the crisis must not become an excuse for creating new institutional formats that endanger the delicate balances of various eu institutions , a balance that – through appropriate adjustment – was proven on the test of time . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse for calling into question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process . of course , the crisis emphasizes the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need the final , and total ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally empowered europe that we need . extension the eu ’s schengen area of freedom and democracy , its peace , stability and prosperity , particularly throughout south-eastern europe , is in the interests of all europeans .
his motivation is not hard to see : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help wrest control of pakistan , india , a largely sugar-producing state , from upa in the upcoming state assembly elections . in fact , this goal explains another policy reversal as well . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by prominent upa followers , have supposedly driven the government to correct extravagant prices and to write off sugar farmers ’ poor debts , leading to over-production . instead of eliminating this system , as expected , modi ’s government brushed away subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raise import tariffs on sugar to discourage foreign competition , and stepped up the sugar-based ethanol that needs to be blended with gasoline . a recently cited example of outgoing administrations of supposed economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policy .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats have served as an existential crisis that can no longer be treated like a typical party crisis . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls suggest that the spd will lose more support , albeit less so than in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood just as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in regional elections in bavaria this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . but with the spd in decline , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role .
while russia alone wo n’t freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning was plain to do so : it would be better for all parties should be brought home and invested in a national economy . most importantly , if the us is to reverse capital flight , its government must persuade individual savers that they can safely deposit money and pull it back on demand . so , how can a government expect to mobilize domestic investment until long as ordinary russians keep the savings rate -- $ 50 billion by most estimates -- within its borders . russia ’s people need a convincing case for the country ’s political stability -- namely , nobody will suggest nationalization , as has happened repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister . for this to happen , russia needs to build a secure and attractive investment climate .
without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , ever more and more people in east germany used to take heart , holding out fear of their repressive regimes . they realized that east germany ’s realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that a change was possible , one that many courageous dissidents and civil-rights proponents trapped behind the wall demanded for so long . their commitment to the communist regime ’s injustice is to me one of the best chapters in german history . brought by the opening of hungary ’s borders that fall , and seeking refuge from eastern germany ’s business embassies in prague and warsaw , already rocked the communist and stasi rule over its foundations .
what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that empowers and engages governments , aid communities , companies , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and arts . responsibility-sharing – the foundational foundation of the modern international system for protecting refugees – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least always fusing . as a result , some , though relatively speaking , rather than many , advance journeys toward the developed world . and yet , looking on affluent parts of the world ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive has become increasingly muddled , as manufactured panic over supposedly massive influxes of “ hazardous ” outsiders closes down space for a humane , pragmatic response . it is time to re-boot global efforts to protect refugees .
munich – the euro crisis has gone so far as to date . it is worth recalling them because they show how policymakers have wavered along , trying to squalid out fires , without keeping an eye on where their chosen path led them . currently , markets remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the seventh phase of a crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . in fact , the sequence so far has been as follows : the present has not always been the beginning : the end of the crisis has actually passed the point . the seventh phase of the crisis is one of heightened moral hazard on the part of the debt .
from 1985 to 2005 , boomsters made ten-year forecasts , which exaggerated the chances of major positive change in both financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as the tranquility of the middle east and the dynamic growth of sub-saharan africa ) . they allocated the probabilities of 65 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized only 15 % of the time . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , overstate the odds of negative change at every level where boomsters accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , brazil , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they allocated the probabilities of 70 % to the bleak scenarios that materialized in only 12 % of the time . second , once the skeptics warned , over-claimers seldom pay penalties for being wrong .
margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services , not just finance , but also law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so on – makes eu single-market membership critical . the economic challenges of brexit would have been overwhelming . the out of the campaign ’s keynesian economic argument – that britain ’s vast trade deficit is a covert weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain ’s from a breakdown in commercial relations – is flatly mistaken . britain would have to negotiate access to europe ’s single market for its service industry , whereas eu manufacturers would enjoy automatically virtually unlimited rights to sell whatever one wanted in britain under the global trade organization rules . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member , or , simply on the wto .
when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites tried to harness the power of the army and the bureaucracy to check an elected government . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have emboldened their followers to take positions at the bureaucracy and even the military . answering them will require debate that transcends issues like the government ’s separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that , understanding the historical context of the current crisis is crucial . in reality , with the judiciary backing , the turkish military explicitly intervened to practice civilian government operations in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 each time in the name of protecting secularism .
berlin – during greece ’s lengthy night of negotiations on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union cracked . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) and the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . at a deeper level , though , what was at stake was the role of europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country . what changed that night was the germany that europeans knew since the end of world war ii . since then , europeans have lived in another type of eu .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab military interventions by arab military interventions – unlike those undertaken by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . by the end of 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent a total of 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against royalist forces . such interventions were typically geared toward empowering a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing the non-violent , war-torn mechanism after the war . egypt ’s military interventions in yemen in the 1960s are a case in point . despite the use of prohibited chemical weapons against the yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , the first in an intra-arab conflict – egypt failed to achieve its goals .
unfortunately , however , this norm will still apply only to very large multinational companies , and the news is not publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential transparency tool . in fact , the reform process was led by oecd countries and opened up to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled . beps were undoubtedly an important step toward eradicating some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational corporations . for example , it initiated , the sharing among country-by-country tax authorities reports on these companies ’ ’ profits and tax payments . nowadays , there are 125 countries , forming a group called “ inclusive ” framework .
reducing the tax preferences of noncorporate business actors ( like partnerships ) that pass their revenues through on to their proprietorships would also broaden the corporate-income tax base . pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net corporate earnings ( by far the highest share in advanced countries ) . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not widen the tax base sufficiently to finance a rate cut to 28 % . likewise , while limiting net interest-rate deductibility for corporations , as many other advanced countries have done , broadening the corporate tax base and discouraging excessive reliance on debt financing , it would widen the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . several of these corporate entities are very big and profitable , and enjoy the same legal advantages that corporations face .
this means that the israeli military will continue to enter gaza at will and retain control over its border crossings , airspace , as well as territorial waters . but at the same time , israel insists that it has no attributes of sovereignty by gaza , and that will continue to be guided by existing arrangements that cover most aspects of security and civilian governance . these preconditions govern any possibility of forging a security roadmap that receives the support of all warring factions , including hamas . israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to the eu ’s 37 years of occupation .
almost 60 years later , in the united states , agricultural employment peaked at 53 % of global employment . in fact , since as early as the 1980 ’s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in farm employment . in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % . today , that is less than 3 % . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has exceeded 10 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that the vote will usher in an era of stability and calm through lending popular legitimacy to the government . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illicit interim constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are just such a case as to make my party and his cabinet coalition partners boycotting the vote . in fact , my support for the election has been growing , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second favorite in our frontier province and gaining ground in every other province . to be sure , contesting the election will provide my party with an ample opportunity to take the issues on its behalf . but , at times , the only way to make democracy work is through the refusal to participate in it .
just as bernanke and others wish otherwise , and as much as bickering politicians seeking to dump policy responsibilities onto others , central banks lack the proper tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that originated from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix the debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . and it is good news that the formal sector pays more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . still , regrettably , this shift will not solve a problem that is getting away with the social fabric of any society . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at an increase cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
most of china ’s internationally shared freshwater resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950 ’s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new center of china ’s dam construction . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released later that year , calls to engineer a new surge of dam projects on the chinese shoreline . furthermore , china recently cut off tributary regions of the brahmaputra river , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , to build rivers as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . indeed , china ’s dam builders are targeting most transnational rivers that flow from chinese territories .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that more multilateral action was critical in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it otherwise would have been . over the last 70 years , multilateralism had served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after the second half of world war ii . back then , it was the world ’s tottering financial system . today it is the global trading system that ranks jeopardy .
but this was hardly a farfetched transformation in a city where people provided new identities , like the nasserist , the nasserist , the islamist , or the communist party , downplaying their regional and tribal origins . meanwhile , schools were multiplying as attendance has surged . other public services were also improving equally , with parents believing that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . they were not happy when their elder sons became communists in 70 years , strongly opposing the brutal regime of hafez al-assad , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s father . this was certainly true of my parents , who had sacrificed much to raise their nine children .
this track record of high turnover due to overwork and the increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . and now policymakers need to devote more attention to the health-care work itself alone , ensuring that it is properly educated and trained to challenge the challenges that await the region . training programs in gcc national health systems today are not focused nearly on innovations or systems thinking to improve efficiency and effectiveness . policymakers have been right to focus on expanding access and higher-quality health subsidies . but equitable distribution of health-care services across indigenous and adolescent populations is often a thorny political issue .
the decisive moment came after de gaulle , in a military uniform on tv , to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium . if the state had been bowed before the challenge it faced , “ france ” would have been no more than an impoverished one , broken toy floating on an ocean of insecurity , ” he warned . if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . insisting that self-determination was the only way forward , he has called on the army to reject even passive associations with rebellion and instructed it to reestablish public order . “ well , darling , old poland , here the us once faces a heavy test , ” he complained .
these divisions would enable new forces to emerge within iranian society at every level . just when the world reached the consensus that ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad did appoint a vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later overhauled the nomination ) . iranian students would have been emboldened to visit and study at asian universities where they would have discovered how confident young chinese and indian students are about their futures − which might well have caused them to reflect on why young iranians do not share this optimism . indeed , what we do know with certainty is that the regime is divided . so all means should be found to reach beyond iranian society at all levels .
common funding , with all members paying a share based on their gdp , is one instrument used to bring more equitable sharing . traditionally , nato has applied the “ cost ” policy lie where it falls ” : each member has picked up all the costs for the operational contribution it made to alliances operation . over the last few years , nato ’s overarching financing policy has been updated to permit common funding to be used as an incentive to provide certain theater-level enabling capabilities , like medical devices , commercial handling of troops and deliveries , or intelligence work . how can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry division against the provision of high-profile enablers like cap helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? over what time do you make your calculations ?
because of the ease of financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen like “ eurozombie ” companies proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained , owing to debt-headwinds – yet another result of easy monetary conditions . given such conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing appears to be particularly nefarious . moreover , one might argue that easy money alone has made an unexpectedly powerful disinflationary forces seen in the last few years . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underpinning their policies .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime — once central to america ’s strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable by america that drops strong hints that there are alternatives to saudi military outposts , even saudi oil . al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are viewed directly from fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . thus , among a fallacious set of options , the least bad seem to be cooperation with america . yet cooperation with the us may not gain the al-sauds much , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point . though the saudis were not enlisted by president bush as an “ axis of evil , ” ” ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil .
a number of clinical trauma theorists seem to believe that struggle , rapes , and other terrifying experiences seem ostensibly engraved on the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that minds can protect themselves by banishing memory of the trauma of awareness , making it harder for victims to recall their own most horrific experience , until it is safe to do so many years down the line . nevertheless , these clinical trauma theorists do not argue that “ re-suing ” or “ dissociated ” ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that what is known as the “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves the big victims from their trauma , precisely because it has been so thoroughly terrifying . how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today .
as a child , mastering elé belé belé ’s cruel art was also important . in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game with my cronies , we would simply allow the new kid in them , but only after a whispering to one of the other ’s ears , elé belé belé . an elé belé belé is a player who thinks she is involved but , in truth , only goes through the motions . everybody knew that the goal packaged by him was no real goal . when a new kledown arrived with a doting mother , we could convey to one another with the mere glance that the kid is an elé belé belé .
as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some of the early warnings that have been made over the past few years seem obsolete . northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued , for example , that america ’s economy is tied to slow growth , because today ’s ’s technological innovations will not boost growth to the degree that they have in the past . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers has gotten a lot of attention for his argument that the world has risked backsliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” because the interest rate needed to bring desired investment in line with desired savings has been below zero . yet , while the uncashless rebound no longer seems like the binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one of which concerns debt levels . the financial times ’ stock exchanges all-world index rose almost 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 .
but even the joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 just for designed “ interaction and collaboration ” on hydrological data – has proven little value in doing so . indeed , china has been damming most international rivers pouring out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already vulnerable to the effects of global warming . india ’s government has been pressing china for more transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a determination not to re-launch the natural flow of any single river or reduce cross-border water flows . yet local authorities in yunnan province , consider damming the salween in the quake-prone upstream region . the one rivers that no hydro-engineering operation has undertaken so far are the indus , whose basin falls predominantly in india and pakistan and the salween that flow to burma and thailand .
in the end , china ’s rapid growth will have to reflect a huge rise in its currency , its domestic-price level , or both . as for china ’s renminbi , it continues to support a very political exchange-rate regime . perhaps , but the bulk of its student loan colleagues view quantitative easing as the textbook policy to pull an economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” ” ” ” ” ” thereby preventing the onset of persistent deflation to exacerbate debt burdens . ultimately , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . yet , for the most part of the equator , much of the equilibration can occur through inflation .
with the us distracted by other strategic challenges , not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other power , especially an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , is the best contender for the job . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in a us-led worldview , emphasizing in their own transnational relationships the values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect a territorial and naval status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation . moreover , they have displayed their shared desire to upend the current asian order . without such cooperation , china ’s ’s ’s ambitions would be constrained solely by domestic factors , such as faltering economies , mounting social discontent , worsening environmental crises , or inward-looking politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ?
at the same time , the global financial crisis has exacerbated the challenge of climate change . developed countries should also fulfill their commitments under the convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively . under the convention on sustainable development and measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in financing , technology and capacity-building are taking nationally appropriate mitigation actions . but , because climate change poses a more far-reaching , serious challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to tackling it . moreover , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , funding , and technology transfer .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . florence , earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , left a pillar of a leaderless international financial order or direction . kim , for his part , will join a private-equity enterprise , where he believes that he can make the largest impact on major global issues such as climate change .
that is arguably what the bank of japan ( boj ) is doing today . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option . yet he has launched a policy of replacing the boj ’s government bonds with its balance sheet , once it has matured , while continually inflating the size of central-bank debt on central-bank books . a <UNK> ter-money version would be purchases of zero-interest-rate government bonds that wo n’t be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds or because they are rolled over each time they mature . this comes after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , trump embraced the extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger toward gop elites . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to have been displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . his supporters resemble tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white . actually , his voters ’ median annual income , some $ 72,000 , far exceeds that of america ’s median of $ 56,000 . media outlets provided just $ 2 billion worth of free cover , helping him grab and hold in opinion polls and most primaries .
as soon as one group of people is viewed as disgusting , attention shifts away from them as moral entities . our reaction to soulless bodies sounds well illustrated in the story told about descartes after he died . descartes was known to have an illegitimate daughter , rok , who died when he was five years old , as he would have done before . they became soucartes ’ soucartes , and the moral circle closes in order to eliminate them . according to the narrative , descartes had been so struck by the grief that he created an automaton , the mechanical doll , built to appear identical to his dead daughter .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s response summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy peace and stability in our country . if these bomb is intended to send a message , i will sweep it off , and crush it beneath the feet . if al-qaeda were beyond the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate a nervous reaction in restricting democratic rights . at the same time , we are not going to change our course ; we are about to do so .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who are uncomfortable with khamenei ’s challenge to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . if khamenei is holding fast , mousavi could not win the presidency , but pursue to represent the hopes of the majority among iranians , who differ dramatically with their governments . mousavi has to pursue carefully his legal campaign without compromising the trust to win from large iranians . he must stand by from his two principal demands : nullification of an election and establishment of an impartial committee to govern on governmental violations of electoral laws . should mousavi have called khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader clinging to power shuts .
but , though yanukovych was thinking primarily of his own self-interest , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . imagine that he had stopped asking himself what would make him happier . a political leader has greater opportunity than almost anyone else to help the people , and that was supposed to be yanukovych a top priority . imagine that , with that question in mind , he coincided with an alternative of smorose lifestyle ( with a private zoo and pirate-restaurant ships ) with this of life comfortably upon which he was entitled while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best way to improve ukraine ’s lives . again , there is something at stake , too , than one ’s ’s reputation .
two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , which is formally part of korean workers ’ party structure , denounced israel ’s “ south korea puppet forces for serious violations of its north-south joint statements and pressing north-south ties to the worst disaster . ” on a visit ’s day , north korea ’s state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is the ulterior design of america ’s [ under-d more ] zealously south korean puppet forces into escalating confrontations with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation to the pitch and ignite [ a second korean war ] . ” from this very moment of the incheon visit , north koreans ’ state news agency have continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is the ulterior design of america to [ reform more ] zealously of south korean puppet forces in an bid to strain an extreme confrontation with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation toward the pitch and ignite [ a second kind of the korean war ] war . north koreans have been far less forthcoming on their intentions .
yes , humans do specialize , and they should specialize , too . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to economy-wide diversification . everyone benefits from each of us becomes good at different things , replacing our knowhow on behalf of others . it is not efficient for the dentist and lawyer . when an idea is both counter-intuitive true and actually bogus , it is often because it is true on one level but not on the level in which it is deployed .
by contrast , several people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to stop until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil-society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent tends to echo its own level of rhetoric that eschews the unequivocal word “ “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ engagement ” and community acceptance . this choice may indicate that the organization of leaders had already decided to proceed with release.reinforcing this conclusion , following the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between a requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) and a public-health context . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have not been adequately consulted about target malaria work.the more interviews i conducted with me , the clearer it became that municipal people had not been involved in a genuinely participatory debate on target malaria ’s project , much less extended their informed consent . by contrast , several people whom i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to cease until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent resonates with its own figures that eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but in the us authorities told us that , despite meeting with malaria ,
at the moment , the world ’s labor markets are interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us compete with young chinese and indians for jobs . they do not protest too much ; rather , many end up in prison . many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force altogether : not in school , not in the workplace , rather than in search of work . china ’s lower-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workforce , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the standard for competitiveness globally .
but weakening the rule of law is not just domestic in hungary or poland . article 7 of the lisbon treaty provides for the suspension of a rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires unanimity for all european member states , everyone knows that it would never be used . indeed , article 7 is such a ineffective deterrent that it serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing them not to be punished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years and encouraging other populists to pursue their own authoritarian goals – and with eu funds to boot .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda that said that there was incontrovertible evidence of connections with al queda and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lay . detection technology had made it obvious that iraq lacked nuclear weapons , as the head of united nations inspector hans blix pointed out . it is possible that bush read these messages , but that they were beyond his comprehension . it is also possible that bush read these messages , but that they were beyond his comprehension .
unfortunately , as sri lanka ’s bombings and elsewhere in asia demonstrate , isis ’s defeat in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , because battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage attacks are now back home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how obscure local groups have been able to conduct sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosive material . all of these groups are driven by the nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . returnees are present in many other great indian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in blood and honey ’s land , ” concerns the range of ethnic tensions that has spawned the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . the film has already won two awards , and is emerging box-office success , attesting to enduring interest , and perhaps a mystery – that the balkan region holds for international audiences that were just as frightful to the events of the 1990 ’s . for those of us who have lived and worked in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain with fresh wounds . one exception , perhaps the sole exception , was kiro gligorov , the president of macedonia , who subsequently died while asleep at new year ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s day in age , at age 94 . denver , angelina jolie ’s new movie , “ in blood and honey ” about the ethnic tensions that have spawned the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii .
moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are also signs that uk-based firms have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans , after a prolonged period of dead-end , planning , and increasingly waiting . and that process is likely to accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to get her proposed exit deal through parliament . in addition to shifting investment away from the united kingdom , firms will also start relocating jobs . there is evidence of falling inward foreign investment , and this contributes to an economy on disappointing growth rates globally .
she recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe a more influential europe , which is also empowering its citizens . at present , opinion polls are bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and the surge in support for hamon among left-wing voters outside of the socialist party . and she views globalization as being sound , but understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . if macron qualifies for the second-round run-off , however , le pen will pose a greater threat to le pen than an committed leftist candidate would . she advocates of local decision-making whenever they can and should work as well , but she also promotes national and european-level decision-making , where that is where this is appropriate ; the key is that the processes should be flexible , enabling civic participation .
an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists throughout europe , as was apparent in the strain of collective mourning and outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we have to build on that enormous potential to create a logic of global solidarity . that is not nostalgia for past glory , nor is it good for europe ’s people . the european project is a realist ’s response to globalization and its challenge . it was launched to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” foster political stability , and to consolidate the institutions of democracy and the european social model . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was apparent in the role of collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on that vast potential to forge a logic of global solidarity .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ gathering data . ” krugman ’s merry response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . they had “ overlooked , ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no more than a deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did not demand that they rethink their theory .
notwithstanding the trump and the brexit phenomena , america and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . the same can not be said for the kaczyński.another major distinction is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond their concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this divergence is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions like freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be too surprising . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it has also tended to focus on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in an vastly different political landscape in europe ’s postcommunist states , the left has been either very fragile or utterly absent from the political mainstream . after all , what is true of liberalism in eastern europe is western imports .
as for the eurozone , we seem to have been overly optimistic , even as we foresaw a decline in potential growth to the equivalent of 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters have placed the region on a per capita growth potential of around 1 % . if germany can not shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection probably turns out to be correct . but that is a very large “ if ” ” ” ” ” . yet , while the vast majority of press coverage has focused on germany ’s ’s declining exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s services sector remains strong .
in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion of the financing costs entailed by turkey ’s eu accession . with the exception of this , immigration should not turn out to be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is severely limited , and turkey ’s workforce would most likely have been allowed to move more freely within the eu only after a long transition period , possibly not before 2025 . given the anticipated upswing in turkey ’s economy and its declining birthrate , eu experts predict a figure of some 2.7 million migrants by this point . the size of such transfers , though it would nonetheless depend on eu financial policies at the time of admission , the outcome of eu accession talks , and economic retrenchment in turkey .
more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refuse to accept jesus as their messiah -- as perpetrators of a felony living on every generation . often , anti-semites cite a passage in matthew , in which a jewish crowd cheers for christ 's execution and tacitly accept persistent guilt : " his blood is on us and our kids . " matthew then attributes to jews a repetitive lie that explains away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : " his disciples came at night , stealing him even while we were sleeping . " the later evangelist john concludes that jews deny the christian messiah they must be “ sons of the devil . " just as whites attribute the extraordinary sex powers of their black men , the instinct of the christian west is to treat jews as the masters of extraordinary power -- including the power to kill deities and control world finance .
encouraged by the illusion of a robust reserve position , the thai central bank took on the “ speculators ” and lost . but , with too much macho , overleveraged politics and provincialism , reform never came away . thailand 's decision last may cut interest rates left it a safe gamble to bet against rock , opening salvo in a crisis . so the idea that “ this country is different , ” ” ” that the rules of global finance at all failed to apply , proved utter nonsense . by the time the crisis hit , thailand looked like all the others that turned in their desperation to the imf .
hence the effort to nail down the concessions extracted by the protests , the lesson of governments arrived . but how can those concessions , given under the duress , be secured ? that is the task at which non-governmental organizations and protests movements are ill equipped : they can arouse the public conscience , no matter how existing they can be provided by governments . it was not least thanks to the effort of protest movements that france has now made concessions on both those reference to them . hence the struggle to nail down the concessions extracted by the protests , the lesson of governments has arrived .
as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social strife . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . compounding the challenge , a cohort of well-communicated elites in russia is also rising . at the same time , russia ’s large population will not become well-informed overnight . but , because the regime has been forced to dedicate more resources to silencing the informed , majority will suffer economically .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that the united states would not weaponize the renminbi . and yet , implicit in their vow not to manipulate the currency for a strategic ends is their ability to do so when it is so desired . indeed , many wonder whether china will react to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should be calling his bluff . china of monetary policy came to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods .
it would seem that , in addition to contributing to the size and productivity of their workforces , these immigrants also often complement native-born skills , helping them to earn more . in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the population has risen , from around 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today . my career focused on economics is , which is why i have emphasized the role of growth . but that is clearly not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . the fact that developed countries are shifting culturally also matters , perhaps even more so .
the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the student movement ’s leader at birzeit college in the 1980 ’s , and one of the leading organizers of the early intifada , resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . in 2002 , hamas was arrested and sentenced to a prolonged prison term on charges that it led to a second intifada , starting two years earlier , that order of some of its military strikes . that shift , in turn , leaves around the way for a generational change of leadership , and , more important , a transition to post-oslo politics . indeed , the plo ’s old guard , men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the secular liberation organization ( plo ) from internal exile and returned home with the oslo accords , dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . following likud ’s departure , palestinian leaders , born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons , will most likely fill that vacuum .
but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be compelled to assume its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely aware of the danger posed by populist nationalists . as a result , the regime is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of populist right-wing nationalism , while maintaining its strong statist rhetoric . that will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the ruling bureaucracy and the security apparatus . these are the key ingredients in a nationalist stew that seem to appeal to russians nowadays .
that new load would easily replace power generated by a country with a per capita six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is just as committed to doing so in taiwan . last year , reacting to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of june ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai has vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . this new load would easily replace the coal-fired power generated by a country with six nuclear reactors . tsai has called her the share of renewables to rise to 20 % over the next eight years , with capacity that comes primarily from solar and offshore wind .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on the fuels derived from peanut oil . henry ford once gaidar florida , in the hope of buying onshore tracts to plant sugarcane , has convinced the united states that they will not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency on importing oil to produce gasoline . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency of which ford had previously warned . as production grows , we will require policies , programs , and capacity that ensure that they are deployed sustainably , without distorting food markets , or compromising food security – all of which would always be the top priority . the pioneers of biofuels probably were surprised by how little they contribute to the overall global fuel-supply today .
in towns , displays of shop windows illustrated tariff costs on ordinary consumers . liberals and radicals organized travel reveals , color posters , and political entertainment . others have fanned the flames of anglo-american antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on mount sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd georgetown , the future prime minister , has told audiences that they are more fearful of german sausage than they used to be the german navy . one reason for the fact that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identity , rather than just their rational interests in greater wealth and cheap food . like it or not , many britons believed in a “ free-trade empire . ”
an effort to establish the european equivalent of the us dollar and impose fiscal union at the top of it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail . it will transform member countries into debtors and their creditors alike , stoking even greater animosity . an inordinately lax regulatory environment turned out to be lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with south european governments and euro-zone bonds . when the housing bubble burst , italy left in its wake of the woefully expensive economies that had lost competitiveness . europeans should now take advantage of the tranquility surrounding storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the brink .
indeed , the latter now stand at over 15 % of gdp . rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can push their exports out of it aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of a floating exchange rate . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may have lessened . a hits with chinese exports probably catching up as a region of ’s currency depreciations is , nevertheless , unlikely to be felt right away immediately .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within america ’s state when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to american interests . for europe , the situation on two counts is worrying . operationally , it is limited to isr and not involved in maintaining ground troops . symbolically , it implies backing the initial and substantial effort by the others . following from above , following nato has operational and symbolic significance .
the private sector had large foreign assets , whereas the government had about equal amounts of foreign liabilities . on the other side , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions like pension funds , then they can be identified and taxed . this analysis suggests that the “ excess [ current-account ] imbalances ” of the ” procedure intended to be put in place under ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction . even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines spirited their assets out of the country and thus beyond the reach of the government , while poor argentines refuse to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . in large part , this is precisely the case elsewhere in europe .
the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chubais , and milan are household names . disappointed at their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems in large part from their shared love of soccer . but exposure to foreign tv stations also implies that many disillusioned algerians are looking toward leakage to flee to italy , spain , or germany as their only employment hope and respectable lives . will the coming months bring genuine change in algeria ? will social and economic reforms be pursued to secure the equitable distribution of land , from oil and gas wealth ?
it remains far from clear what led greenspan to endorse a tax cut . was this a massive economic misjudgment , or was he currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation comes from a combination of the two , for he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy that calls for tax cuts to cut revenues , thus forcing the public sector to downsize . lower interest rates worked , but not that amount , because they boosted investment , but because they drove households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing price bubble . in short , as greenspan was dishing behind an american economy burdened with high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land has contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants toward europe . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , particularly as the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems . a historic drought may have created conditions for syria ’s civil war .
because they run vastly greater carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to a carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay far more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get more than they put themselves in the process . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income low polluters , all while reducing carbon-dioxide emissions . on their own , this would amount to a smart step in the right direction , one that might n’t invite the “ yellow vest ” ( gilets jaws ) reaction . but do n’t let one say that ’s a silver bullet .
this does not mean that merkel is a free-market capitalist , with little evidence of that . rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing europe , and the ecb sends the wrong signals . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporatist state needs supportive political leadership in the same way accommodating the trade unions did . germany ’s new chancellor angela merkel wo n’t produce speeches attacking a strong europe and the european central bank ’s price stability mandate . on the contrary , she promotes an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s ’s ’s ’s trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-european monetary policy .
because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of europe . germany is at the same camp as all second europeans with respect to security . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism an evil idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , prosperous eu , particularly in trump ’s age . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it worries about the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation in member states ’ interests . just about anything like french security without germany can do so without poland .
indeed , very few of those receiving ect also do not receive benzodiazepines , causing major autobiographical memory problems when given alone , and antipsychotic drugs that make hardship with lists of names or telephone numbers and other comparable challenges . to be sure , there is no dispute that a ect can lead to short-term memory loss . but critics have found it hard to demonstrate the memory or other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . indeed , very few of those receiving ect also do not also receive benzodiazepines , causing major autobiographical memory problems when given alone , and antipsychotic drugs causing difficulties in name lists or telephone numbers and other comparable struggles . the same applies to antidepressants .
so why should we think that they would suffice in a much more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? if they were , no domestic bankruptcy law would have been needed – that spells of issues like precedence and equitable treatment . specifically , cacs are suffering from the problem of “ aggregation . ” but no government has found cacs fit with adequate procedures for resolving domestic restructurings . if a cac required , say , 75 % of individual bond class holders , the vultures could buy up 26 % of just one bond class and block the entire restructuring .
moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . the eu should reinforce the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations – precisely what has long lacked on western policy on ukraine ’s crisis and on the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . holding up talks in the context of a contemporary atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial investment of political capital to continue at a time when budgets are ongoing . we arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantage , eschewing negotiated compromises . a quick deal will not be possible .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense , and research and development . american federal government size and power grew only slowly until the 1830s , when a new treaty – which included federal programs , public works projects , and financial and regulatory reforms and regulations – was put in place in response to the great depression . america ’s federal government had expanded once more during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by a new treaty ’s endorsement of unionization and home ownership ) . the us government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security . in contrast to china ’s statist legacy , american political history instilled in its citizens and leaders allegiance to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy .
france has suffered more than 230 deaths and some $ 700 wounded , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and around 900 injured . as a result , the precise number of european fighters who obtain training from isis and returned home remains unknown . isis has supposedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , supervision , counter-security , and forgery . abdelhamid abaac , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , has argued that he is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . isis has so far struck france and turkey the hardest .
in bangladesh , for example , school-run schools run by brac employ female teachers ( the key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) to outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . yet a dearth of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts hard to impossible . women account for just one-third of all primary - and lower-secondary school teachers , in part owing to extraordinarily low female literacy rates . to account for the learning crisis in much of the developing world , governments and development agencies should look to reach deeper opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has started to unlock its doors to innovative ngo models such as brac ’s ’s community-based education program .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the longstanding use of state expenditures to fund the regimes that are allies and clients , rather than benefiting the entire population as a whole . and protesters , fueled by economic grievances , were emboldened to upgrade broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of war in syria . combined , these regimes dominated every country ’s private sector through cronyism , not just to extract and distribute rents to its clients , but also to block the emergence of autonomous actors that might finance an opposition movement . these economic shocks exposed each country ’s massive costs . as a result , capital and skills were misallocated , business climate has worsened and competition , innovation and growth have suffered .
but the reduced flexibility in response to economic shocks will certainly test it . that raises the old question of whether a currency union can function free of fiscal union , or at least stronger , more binding fiscal rules ( maastricht 's liabilities are too easily violated ) . to this we must add coordinated monetary regulation and bailout policies as deposits flow swiftly across borders in response to national guarantees and pan-european insurance . at current times , it boldly emphasizes the disparate , even discordant , fiscal response now being embraced by european union governments . will the euro of the second decade be as successful as the first ?
nowadays , language barriers keep many immigrant parents from helping their children with their homework because the texts are only at the english level . but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and corrected at a legion of contributors . today , pluto remains at the un ’s list of planets in science textbooks and who know how long it will take to remove them . but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and corrected at a legion of one ’s contributors . such a world was only a decade ago ; we would simply have never known it .
one strong school of thought that has emerged almost as the killing began in chile in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders have become reckless . them should have been obvious to them that a violent crackdown was inevitable . indeed , so proponents of this school often add up , with china not yet ready for democracy . by provoking a regime , its students have derailed any chance of slow political reform , to which their more moderate elders carefully set in train . if only they could have taken their place in china , this time .
delivery challenges abound in war zones , but not everywhere . and all aid around the world will not stop the killing at all . it is now too late for non-military tools of coercion to have a huge effect , though the security council ’s threats of the international criminal tribunal for atrocity crimes , including possible use of chemical weapons , must remain on the table . but what of the military/response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ? yet international donors are dragging its feet on compliance with current commitments , and to make new ones .
for example , when trump calls for reduced american military engagement in the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . trump ’s global trade war is similarly self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he practically stokes them into china ’s arms . and , by moving beyond his trip to ease north korea ’s role in international isolation , while gaining almost nothing in return , he has strengthened china ’s standing in east asia . still , by reneging on the nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region far more likely .
ultimately , regions can be turned to engines of growth . merchandise need not pass through capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with associated cost increases . it is only as vital , albeit , for committees to develop along similar lines in individual countries ’ provincial districts . every country could establish a governing council that represents public-sector entities ( transport , public-sector works , customs ) , and major users ( consumers and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to lower logistics costs . user communications and government services have a vitally important role to achieve any real improvement .
the fdp has broad support in germany and among german economists ( and is shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they are in line with the positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under its previous administration . as we saw more than a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can become fragile and collapses , imposing high costs on society . still , policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient , resilient financial markets might be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect , real-world markets . the idea of a temporary exit from the euro is especially ill-advised at this time .
will it return to robust growth , or will the us experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? will it return to robust growth , or will the us experience with an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i have cast my vote on the latter , particularly given that a massive debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the large stimulus that is in place . many wall street financiers , having gotten their gobs of cash , go back to their fiscal religions of low deficits . with no sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will have a vicious negative downward spiral : a weak economy implies greater bankruptcies , pushing stock prices down and interest rates tamed , undermining consumer confidence and weakening the banks .
prague , worldwide , free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare in the coming decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty in the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers further could double the average incomes of the poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yet , in rich countries today , the mood has turned against free trade . yes , there are costs to freer trade , which must be addressed better ; but the costs have vastly outweighed the benefits .
when muslims comprise a minority , those around the world have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever their ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ us versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , thus enabling the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims represent states that are predominantly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions . whether they like it or not , most of sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are predominantly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession ” with growth has only just been “ serving as a pretext for doing nothing with health , about education , or about redistribution . ” and he is an obsession rooted very well in the current environment . piketty sees that as grounds “ to appear “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” “ we forget that for centuries growth was basically zero , ” he writes . “ one percentage of real growth ... implies a doubling of the greatness of your economy every 30 or 35 years .
for good reason , many europeans are deeply sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . for good reason , many europeans are deeply sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . for good reason , many europeans are deeply sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . this language represents a sharp departure from that of earlier official eu communiqués . the following year , will most likely be critical .
though the democrats have too often criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing any more trade liberalization . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with high-risk ideas that encourage massive amounts of fed-funded debt . well-off leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – might reappoint powell , who has done a good job , or choose a moderate , democratic economist like former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . a final question to consider when assessing america ’s leading presidential contenders is whom each would appoint as the next chair of the american federal reserve . trump , who has faced repeatedly criticism of current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing excessively monetary-policy easing , would most likely choose his dovish candidate .
the boston globe , for example , ran an article about a man , identified only by his first names , “ canny , ” which the brothers carjacked three days after the attacks . danny claimed that the brothers ’ sole word ’ conversation that he understood was “ manhattan , ” and that the terrorists questioned whether his car might leave the state – say , to get to new york . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing , and was unverifiable by other reporters or citibank , but suggested a lot , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable messages that new yorkers had targeted new york city . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting has made it just as flimsy . as a recent account by the guantánamo “ uprising ” of the guantánamo “ uprising , ” the new york times ” had conducted the new york times credulously reproduced that gitmo officials showed reporters in a video still room .
a second study , funded by ifad and i recently released by the us-based international food policy research foundation , examines the worldwide downturn that began in 2012 over the rural population . she finds that with a downturn having grown by 38 million more people in extreme poverty in 2030 than likely would otherwise have been true , with middle-income farm households particularly at risk . at the same time , those gains have not been evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far fewer progress than other areas . this poses a serious challenge for the sdgs to end extreme poverty “ poverty ” in all its forms everywhere , ” ” and it reinforces the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction measures are needed more and will have a larger impact . rural areas of ’ progress so far reveals their futures .
but once the political franchise had been enlarged , the working class became organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals started competing ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . a classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar years . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics compelled the british government to elect domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson in mind as it redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 . these policies might then have been entirely subjugated to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . yet the region ’s female farmers often reap a meager harvesting , not because of inclement weather or poor soils , but because of their gender – or , more precisely , the result of the dense web of laws , policies , program programs , and customs that put them at a substantial disadvantage .
though there are pockets of high unemployment throughout europe today , the ratio of working people to the elderly will decline considerably in the longer run . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . beyond addressing the need to ease the human misery that fills the television screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the meaningful medium-term opportunities that migration provides . after all , a significant share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulties of retooling and reretraining workers , particularly the long-unemployed .
with digital commerce having estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , the opportunities for gig work are likely to grow . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of workforce benefits and responsibility for employers . and where access to a wide range of revalued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , that gives them conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , they would have a powerful rationale to formalize their work . for example , if an independent worker drives one class for uber and you walks a dog on a rover , every platform would contribute an equal amount toward her or her benefit . that would enable freelancers to accumulate and manage their perks , and ultimately to acquire a safety net , like that of a full-time contracted worker .
implementing ( and financing ) initiatives like these will require sustained political will . for starters , they must take action to preserve the rural environment , ensure animal well-being , and improve education , knowledge-based transfer , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and agricultural laborers . moreover , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made catastrophes , building more efficient and sound protection schemes . they could also make it easier to provide affordable , agricultural insurance for farmers , or to develop some types of mutual-assistance regimes . likewise , the uk needs to ensure that its agricultural sector can tap into new technology .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates , at least , have remained near zero for at least six years now . crisis management has led to major market distortions , with some segments ’ performance-based performance no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming more apparent , and will become more tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . with more liquidity , markets have been flooded with liquidity .
the telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated , user-driven scientists ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” at the west knitting what the most intuitive form should be . we ’ve seen hints of a new paradigm at apple ’s iphone that allows gestural finger motions ; but , within the us intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users barely recognize what it was . designs are inspired by centuries of cognitive science , computer sciences , even science fiction . it is easy to forget that after years of mit telephones had no buttons or tdial , you had to pick up a handlaid and ask the operator to make a connection . with the improvements in computing power , form is the key .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s brand means “ foresight , ” because he always looked ahead , unlike his career-giving brother , epimetheus , whose name means “ hindsight . ” yet epimetheus was charmed to pandora and heedlessly welcomed her in his life . not so long ago , it came to realize its gruesome error . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus attempted to warn its brother not to embrace zeus a dangerous gift . but that remains not the whole story at all .
in fact , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate cause of breakdowns when examined closely is not actually all that serious . a crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new , much easier , way of taking over majority voting in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member country has a certain number of votes , well weighted according to population , but the small countries are protected by having proportionally fewer votes than the big countries do . indeed , the chances are that , once again , they will do just that . what is known in this system is what is known as qualified majority voting .
rome – prices of many staple foods rose dramatically during the 2007-2008 global financial crisis , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , strong crops ’ demand for bio-fuels sectors , falling global food stockpiles , and lower cereal output . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies boosted the trend further , as did protectionist measures such as export restrictions . while such factors undoubtedly place upward pressure on food-price prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes . for example , international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , have reached their peak in 30 years , causing political and economic instability – leading to food riots – in many countries .
in a video produced after the fighting for the mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ end of the sykes-picot order , ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political-map . erdoğan ’s ambitions to reestablish turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world drives him to collude with this challenge to the sunni western-devised regional order . this highlights yet another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . the similarities with the islamic state ’s allegiances are glaring . indeed , turkey has made logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has enabled the group of murderous muslim men to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani for turkey ’s regional doorstep .
since entering the white house , the lunacy has only grown stronger . so far , it has refrained from asserting outright that these markets conduct at behest of “ world jewry ” ( their architects , many turkish islamists suspect , of the 1908 youthful turk revolution and the secular republic that arose in the aftermath of world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the pistol behind his condemnations of finance forces , the forces that now seem to be demanding higher interest rates . it should never be forgotten that trump has wormed his way into us policy by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that asserted that then-president barack obama was not born in the us and thus did not qualify for the office he held . yet , perhaps no contemporary leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannauthoritarian abe , donald trump .
to ensure full transparency in the startups and eliminate problems that have been presented in the past , western advisors are assisting the us . in the energy sector , we are being privatized by the state-owned energy companies . for our intention is to attract big western energy companies with expertise on this front as a strategic investor . we are also doing everything possible to make ukraine an attractive place for foreign investors . indeed , the 10 leading international energy companies will participate in privatization of the first group of companies .
to be sure , japan , korea , thailand , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( though later adjusted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , such countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and returning to industrial policy ( emboldened , as in the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for returning to government interventions ) . even so , chinese political choices have made a significant impact on other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model now mimicked elsewhere in the region . in japan , the postal services that was privatized are supposed to be re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is scuttled . japanese air lines that were nearly bankrupt have been rescued in a government bailout , a facility that appears increasingly commonplace .
indeed , since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . without the ecb ’s commitment , on its own , since 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , a lingering gamble on the eurozone – and , indeed , on the entire edifice of the european union – of sovereign-debt defaults . by contrast , a growing number of emerging economies , highly dependent on commodity exports , emphasized the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially add even their plight – in some cases disastrously so . but , so far , europe has profited from falling commodity prices .
let the world recall that gaza ’s ’s ’s crisis is an manmade catastrophe . today , water and sewage systems collapse ; trash accumulates all the streets . seventy-nine cent of gaza ’s household live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid . nearly half the labor force is now unemployed ; local industries have broken down . let the world recall that gaza ’s ’s crisis is a manmade catastrophe .
new york – the european union needs only to accept responsibility for its lack of a common asylum policy , which has transformed this year , ’s escalating influx of refugees from a manageable problem into an ever-present political crisis . every member state has selfishly focused on its own national interest , often acting against one ’s own interests . that precipitated panic among asylum seekers , the general public , and authorities held accountable for the rule of law and order . so the eu needs a comprehensive plan for responding to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over the flows of asylum-seekers , so that they assume a safe , orderly way and at a pace reflecting europe ’s ’s capacity to absorb them . moreover , asylum seekers have been the primary casualties .
notwithstanding xi ’s success in consolidating his power and expanding his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to gamble on his new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . economists would admit that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently stripped many of its potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to replace the credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists come in , by offering emerging markets ( and avoid ) mistakes . of course , whether they are right about that remains to be seen .
unfortunately , his insight was sound : european countries today are at loggerheads not in spite of the common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that the international dispute over debt and transfers posed grave dangers . in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , european nation-states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at that time , mainly german reparations ) . american economist martin feldstein , in 1997 , wrote that monetary union creates conflicts within europe . at that time , he was derided , viewing himself as entrenched adversary to the european project .
whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are divided by a variety of societal orders , defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between the urban population and the poor , urban and rural populations , and inland and rural cultures are so great that it is much harder than before for people from variegated walks of life to feel that sharing shared plights and objectives . of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society as a reality . still , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of a political order over that of orwell . sometimes , such as when violence recently used to quell south chinese peasant protesting official land grabs , the ccp continues to demonstrate its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-face ” ” ” ” ” suppression .
fears of losing that battle may explain timidity of the left ’s reaction . there are similar trends elsewhere in many european countries , as well as in southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunities are facing an uphill battle in winning over voters . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do is not immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , big experience , and changing circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of its first-ever public-policy pronouncements as american president-elect , barack obama has made a real focus of climate change by stating both his priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , although he neglects to frame the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . judging by obama , “ few of the challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change . ” obama ’s policy outline was presented through videotape to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ world warming summit , and has been shown again in poznan , poland , to the leaders assembled to flesh out a global warming roadmap . sadly , both are weak , or even mistaken for these reasons .
so though the “ outer empire ” made possible by the uk ’s convergence of various national identities around a shared british identity , the “ inner empire ” ” ” “ inner empire ” ” ” ” ” had been decidedly english . its “ civilizing ” missions crafted a sense of collective meaning along the way , as well as a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but a fusion of identity had always been incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the insecurity generated by the north irish “ backstop . ” still , for centuries , the british empire generated riches , supplying raw materials , and creating globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of a british isles . before creating an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , followed by indian and southeast asia – english built an empire , stretching from the southern british isles to the south .
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . when it comes to human rights , they are indispensable to safeguarding free societies . that is why corruption has provoked mass protests in bucharest to brasilia over the last year . freedom of speech and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . while majoritarian administrations may ride roughshod over minority interests , corrupt regimes steal from all .
the promise of working with russia to put an end to the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , even as it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed this way , trump ’s isolationism is a populist way of arguing that america needs to withdraw from the commitments it has neither the power nor the will to honor it . disengaging peacefully from revealing global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge . trump ’s geopolitical and business views should be tried against this background of disenchantment , not merit moral or economic standards . in other words , trumpism might be a solution to liberalism ’s crisis , not a portent of its disintegration .
now , as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework treaty for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter . in a last-ditch effort to improve the draft ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who had largely avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term , met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s purported intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” but changing netanyahu ’s domestic mind wo n’t be easy , not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to age-old , vacuous slogans about a “ unified jerusalem ” – a conviction that might yet unravel the israel-palestine peace process .
new haven – last summer ’s day marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by two major central banks around the world , the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies that they have been tasked with managing . the fed did little , which is precisely the problem . and the boj ’s alchemists at the boj have unveiled another feeble unconventional policy gambit . moreover , their latest moves reinforce an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism across monetary policy and financial markets , as well as asset-dependent economies .
it was henry kissinger , who argued following the terrorist attacks of new york and the washington of 2001 that tragedy could be turned into opportunity . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is very much a part of the solution . it is henry kissinger , who argued following the terrorist attacks of new york and the washington of 2001 , that tragedy can be turned into opportunity . if the prague summit fails to showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new nato-russia relationship last month at our special summit in rome . the fledgling nato-russia council , created in rome , provides us with an effective , flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decisions , and even joint action .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of regimes ’s terrorist operations outside iran , and a puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . nevertheless , over the last few years , the regime has pushed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani like napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders not tainted with corruption allegations , he was mooted as a probable presidential contender in the coming elections . yet to the iranians , it has been a more complicated figure for themselves . while regime hardliners viewed him as a rallying hero , the numbers of iranians who have lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who are objecting to the regime ’s attacks against iranian dissidents in the diaspora see him differently .
to plaza the circle , macron needs growth and relies on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to cut the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . a vocal critic of protectionism , he will press for an eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his endorsement of the el khomri law , which made it easier to fire workers , and his opposition to a 35-hour week , indicate his desire to boost the french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ” yet he also wants to boost the economy with a massive € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and an extension of the welfare state .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can be crossed off the list of potential risks . america , it is said , should pay attention to its own trouble and should not engage in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . never in modern times has the isolationism protected america from danger ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . in the end , america has been paying 1,000 times more for its primary under-interest than it might pay had it become engaged at the outset of crisis , or , better yet , even sooner .
exploiting the asset-backed safety model , the us recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund and china to establish a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will enable pension funds and insurance companies to fund indirectly essential facilities upgrades in mom-and-pop shops and workshops from tijuana to sota del fuego . here , there are also plenty of creative solutions that can be found in the us . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation and financing expanding bus rapid transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to limit congestion , emissions , and commuting costs . there are numerous other areas that committed to fighting climate change can follow our example .
europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , might , should and i believe to regain control of its borders , allow it to intensify and enforce the necessary limits on migration . such an alliance would also enable a new eu foreign policy for europe , one promoting peaceful and sustainable development , underpin new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on america . once again , eurobonds , a greens partnership with china , and intra-european unity could make all the difference . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem obvious . the spd should hold out ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while the cdu/csu holds down the chancellorship .
when there is enough excess supply in an economy , promotion of supply-side productivity becomes practically useless , without efforts to boost demand . that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their demand-focused focus first and second arrows to supply-siders : a new approach to growth . fortunately , that is precisely what abe plans to do anyway . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the total impact on monetary policy will weaken , because it increasingly influences prices more than output . at any rate , the success of us monetary policy makes it difficult to deny one another .
race has always been a provocative topic , when the demands of science and statistics intersect with politics . race has always been a provocative topic , when the need for science and statistics intersect with politics . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in a constitution that recognizes only citizens , and accepts no differentiation in terms of origins , race , or religion . now that debate is heating up again in france once more , because the planned introduction of " ethnic statistics " gave rise to a vicious dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . in accordance with a law that dates back to the french revolution , and reconfirm in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to gather intelligence about a citizen ’s ’s ’s ethnic or commercial origin , whether real or supposedly , when conducting a census or other effort to gather statistical information on the population .
eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and a robust system of laws enforcement , underpin the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity can end . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal . prevention should start with an education to raise their leaders ’ expectations . likewise , no one favors living in a society where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services , like health care and education .
convincing americans , russians , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed be rampant might seem like a futile task . but the objective certainly costs embracing them , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive to well-being . in these countries , government ministers are being forced to resign for petty infractions that would appear trivial in other countries . yet , among other reasons , commercial agreements come more easily and effectively implemented . recent studies have shown that when the “ generalized faith ” of a company is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction is higher .
the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of the post-crisis program . there is an urgent need “ restock the emergency arsenal , ” ” ” particularly when there is relatively little scope to relax monetary policy . as they put it , the use of fiscal adrenalin could be constrained just when it is needed most . the fed began a process of normalizing monetary policy , but did not complete the job , and us president donald trump is doing what it can not do , by heckling from the sidelines . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and transparency in derivatives markets has been materially enhanced .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s commercial relations with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . the same month , reportedly one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded a drilling contract with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions will not put a stop to entrepreneurship . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . hence , western diplomats who negotiate with china should call bigger officials ’ bluff and concentrate on signal-to-noise ratios , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are being made quietly at elevated levels by pragmatic leaders who are indeed susceptible to pressure . china complained loudly , it refused even to allow liu to pick up the hit , and even to jeopardize norway with financial repercussions .
this means that a system ’s focus must shift from a more speculative , proprietary trading to lending and job creation – one that implies reform of financial-sector regulation , and antitrust and corporate-governance laws alongside adequate coercive measures to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . in turn , globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation . americans should hope for all of this , though i am unsanguine that they get a lot of it . the us might disagree that america will demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; concerning global warming ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing international economic institutions ; and providing aid to poorer countries . americans should have hoped for all of this , though i am unsanguine about getting a lot of it . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth .
so little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and gulf states all seek to defy iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world , between sunnis and shi’a , recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . yet the stakes are far higher than they were in the seventeenth century , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with the determination to acquire nuclear weapons . indeed , iran is the only country that openly blasted its desire to destroy another un member . to be sure , this issue is completely outside israel ’s borders .
the strategic significance of the dramatic golan heights , overlooking most of the northern israeli territories of galilee , is obvious . because syria , bereft of soviet-backed support there , less threats toward israel , jerusalem can be made more flexible than previously , when the golan heights were a glacis defending israel not just against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions , the context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on either side . the two parties ’ agendas are , however , different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the golan ’s return , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees concerning its northeastern frontier of security , as well as an end to the syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . for israel , the quid pro quo for the return of the golan is not a fragment of paper with ordinary phrases of peace and shared coexistence .
while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are overly disgruntled the recent policing and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from the provinces , staffed with chechen veterans , might cherish the excitement of sticking it to moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for a salary hike that putin ’s united russia party has announced , with much fanfare , soon ahead of the recent duma elections . but , while some parts of the safety apparatus might support an opening crackdown , violent repression would be hard to sustain . in the fall of 1989 , east germans joined their fellow citizens with the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , throughout the same year in china , protestors in beijing have been devastated by us troops from inner mongolia , who failed to understand mandarin and has little sympathy for big-city dwellers .
not moving forward with the euro would set europe in the form of even more disruptive crises . that is why european leaders have taken on the ambitious steps it has made . the crisis of 1992 has proven to be inherently unstable . not to moving forward with the euro would establish even more disruptive crises . that is why , among other things , bank recapitalization and government-bond purchases would similarly lead to catastrophe .
but its own diplomatic cognitive dissonance , by criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to deliver it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine bilateral relationships , just when america ’s same approach to musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . america , of course , claims that it , too , knows all about democracy . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , after obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he pointed out that he was from hawaii and a small presence in the us to be “ america ’ first pacific president . ” two years later , then-us secretary of state hillary clinton released “ america the pacific century ” to represent a shift in america ’s global strategy .
mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer through avoiding a war but gains further through his control over iraq ’s hitherto covert military efforts . to present additional credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that if war became the only available option they oppose america . to be sure , some members of america ’s allies are better positioned than others to get those points across the audience on the other side of the atlantic . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only , and certainly not the automatic “ serious consequence ” of follow from iraq ’s failed war . alas , the german government , through its behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s campaign of re-election last september , has maneuvered itself from possessing any authority on this issue .
africa ’s smallholder family farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource rivalry fueled by surging populations , face an even more daunting bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to show that the land they call home is theirs . this is especially true of women-owned farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . as a result , rather than investing in terracing crops , logging , and purchasing high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s farmers seek to maximize short-term gains . insecure their ability to control their farms in the next locale , the farmers ’ planning horizons shrink as well . indeed , studies show that there is no scope for reducing poverty , improving nutrition , or obtaining other key development goals without enhancing land rights , particularly for women .
my view is that germany would have been better off in ten years under more neo-liberal policies . but this does n’t seem to be what the german electorate wants , and this is why it is driving the animosities of german politics four years from now incalculable . coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically the ecb and the euro . it is not that the endgame of european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is just that people have started thinking about potential low-probability futures , in which an exit from emu might place each other on the agenda . that , after all , is enough to shake asset prices around the world .
the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two greater than the second-place grand finisher , maliki the governing coalition ’s government . its organizers , of course , are loath to describe this as sunni parties . rather , it is described as a national party that arouses people of all orientations to participate . that vision holds great appeal among those who seek to see a junior sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . but , within iraq , there are very few people , neither sunni nor shia , who see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” ” with too many branches , too few deposit facilities , and funding costs far exceed those of their more successful peers . restoring stability in european banking , through the imf ’s own forecast , will require at least one-third of european banks to contract closely or pool . indeed , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of european banking sectors – representing € 8.5 trillion – remain weak and unable to generate sustainable gains . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , the entire european political experiment . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already appear to expect mergers , such as with ecb commerzbank , another german institution .
they should take particular care to prevent a real-estate bubbles , because real estate constitutes an enormous share of overall wealth and a crucial source of collateral in finance . but the strong rise of cheap , leveraged loans should also be a concern . in fact , today ’s febrile political environment certainly wo n’t streamline matters . none of this will come easy from governments , regulators , or central banks . monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; prevent backlashes is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to ensure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly popular .
in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt . again , many economists argued that this case based on arithmetic . but the european central bank , notably by the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini teaghi , elegantly jaded the case against debt reduction , a case that is both politically significant and profoundly morally . indeed , the unreneging principle on public debt has been deeply intertwined with the development of law , the representative government , and the functioning of modern democracy . so perhaps the eu might well prepare itself to prepare the mechanisms that spells out how debt can be trimmed .
but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and a number of republicans would have embraced a disrupter , for example , a disciple of ron “ end the fed ” paul ii , or another highly conservative prefigured the return to pre-world war i the gold standard . trump may just keep keeping his powder dry up so long as a genuine conflict erupts . and , while someday the fed will almost surely embrace that kind of advice ( i have also been published on the topic ) , goodhart ’s nomination has barely survived an american senate banking committee . unfortunately , the battle over the fed ’s autonomy is far from over . in fact , some conservative republicans object to another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis .
moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? yet india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in extreme poverty , the spread of the naxalite rebellion , the risk of a terrorist attack ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . as a result , these problems will not be solved overnight . how will he manage the rising middle class ’s expectation of superior infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity , and water supply , as well as more efficient transportation facilities ? at the same time , however , the growing conviction today that india will be better able to maintain india ’s ’s ’s ’s unified polity stable .
empirically for such firms , few firms get the right done : america ’s domestic public radio , and the swiss were both recently hacked by the seas , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . because few mechanisms can prevent hoaxed tweets from developing , and , given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers force attacks become more onerous . the proliferation of security lapses means that people will shrug their shoulders rather than cast the first stone at a company that breaks down . finally , pm is unlikely to face financial penalties for this mistake . a penalty for losses stemming from a hoaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles .
attribution implies the ability to assign likely causes to occur in human activity , or other factors . several previous studies have shown that scientists can indeed detect long-term climate changes in the increasing frequency of more extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rain forest , severe droughts , and powerful storms . new processes of detection and attribution are sharpening our knowledge , and they also give us an even more cause for concern . detection implies determining whether extreme events are part of usual weather variability , or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . several previous studies have shown over the past year that researchers can indeed detect long-term climate changes in the increased frequency of more extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms .
the international exchange-rate system is , at least , being partially broken . america can cut its deficits more quickly than this would in the non-cooperative case , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . the mutual assessment process at which g20 countries agreed has been a critical component of a rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative , growth-enhancing strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if this works , what will emerge will there be commitments from the g-20 nations to deliver policies that are globally beneficial – on the condition that others stick to their commitments . in fact , rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative .
notably , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren , in my opinion , the two top strongest candidates , vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump , have called for breaking big tech companies . this approach is unlikely to work because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived in the us . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a big issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election in the united states . given the power of top tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . but the solutions being proposed , including by legal scholars like libya , tend to focus on making antitrust laws more effective .
on one recent trip , i met with rasmata , a young mother telling me that because of her savings group ’s safety net , she was management to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering droughts . she diversified her incomes , management her finances , and even embraced climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as a “ hard-working , honed , rigorous , and deeply ambitious woman . ” those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial position or education , deserve to ascribe themselves . throughout each of my field visits , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s lives .
stock values across the fossil-fuel industry , which relies on the assumption that companies will extract and burn out all known reserves , will plummet . investing in such companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risk-averse . that reality implies a different compelling case for divestment . if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate this possibility comes over . as anyone who receives investment statements knows well , “ past performance is no guarantee against future performance . ”
it was only in the late 70 years of the twentieth century and the 1980s that became apparent that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . following the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , g2 world gave way to a g-1 + order in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was the era of liberal , rules-based multilateralism . democratic and market-based capitalism evidently emerged victorious in what francis fukuyama called “ the end of history . ” america broadly championed that order , the 2003 iraq war had been an obvious exception , and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of complex value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deep unpopular pension reforms that included increasing retirement ages . even more important , russia ’s red-hot model has led to weak competition and falling incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . with few rallying public opinion options , putin may well decide that it ’s time to remind russians that they are under attack . addressing russia ’s economic grievances will be no easy feat . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western-imposed sanctions over crimea .
for one thing , eu member states say they are trying to develop a common european foreign policy . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress at all . the goal of economic and monetary union and the single currency – adopted also at maastricht in 1991 – is a bold , even revolutionary program ; some critics will say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be a reality in just two months . this stands in stark contrast with the other aspects of europe ’s agenda . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing just that ; ostensibly , they reinforced those institutions .
augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , especially at this point , change a fundamental perception of such interference , both in and outside the arab world . this is true for actions contemplated by individual peoples , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato . but broad international support will not be forthcoming unless military operations are perceived as certain by some form of western neo-imperialism . that latest point has been at its heart . only an explicit , multilering of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except through clear self-defense – requires .
meanwhile , civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . syria ’s ’s ’s balkanization between a country of diverse ethnic and religious groups reflects an obvious predictable outcome . indeed , bosnia-type scenarios can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical-weapons stockpile poses an immediate threat to military action by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; but it is set to fight until the end . that regional re-alignment need not be anti-western , but it certainly will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily .
in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is rising . over decades , governments have increasingly played a leading role in the domestic media through regulation of broadcast fraud and licensing requirements to shape the market . yet , over the last few years , governments have moved on budget influence as well . today , government budget allocations are among the leading source of media revenues . unfortunately , while this windfall might place more programming on the air , it only deepens the industry ’s woes .
as a result , international law came to recognize the “ “ right of protection ” against a governmental arbitrariness and states ’ states to conduct crimes against their own people , even though enforcement remained fairly uncertain . with its establishment bearing fruit from a long and terrible experience , a basic idea of modernity , that the strength of nation-states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of law , thereby putting individual rights above sovereign sovereignty , took a big step forward . a next big step was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian interventions after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . finally , the same trend in us politics and international law led to the establishment of an international tribunal . this evolution was anything but accidental .
axelrod has held tournaments among prominent game theorists and mainstream political scientists to identify the most efficient approach in a recurrent game of prisoner ’s dilemma . the winner , the strategy most often produced a cooperative outcome , was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . of course , when another player cooperates , one might be tempted to defect , in order to increase your own payoff , and potentially even secure a windfall . only if another misstep – that is , start showing non-cooperative behavior – should one do the same thing . according to the tft approach , a bilateral play is supposed to start with collaboration : if another player behaves cooperatively , so , should you .
most of the world ’s malnourished children live in india . as for threats from the far right , anyone hoping for peace in the region and diminished tensions within india among a group of religious communities relief the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly misfired . sadly , however , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , though it may well boost growth in the short run , is ultimately on a collision course with both equity and environmental sustainability . notwithstanding rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” india ’s embrace of wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion .
but it is fairly obvious that , even back in the 1970s , there was little empirical evidence supporting friedman ’s ideas to justify his continuing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s remedy proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession – – strongly suggests that it would have similarly fallen short had it been tried in the course of the great depression . in that case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and to apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a big enough scale to deal with the problems presented by the great recession . admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our own past . friedman ’s domination of the great recession had less to do with the evidence that support for them than it had given the science of economics all too often tainted game politics .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been mired in turmoil . on the one hand , it had protected the eurozone , notably germany ’s ’s export economy , from speculative attacks and erratic currency volatility . on the other hand , the second stage of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles ’ achilles heel : the lack of economic or monetary union within the euro area . germany ’s ’s post-crisis actions have been plainly contradictory . mounting intra-european tensions were the inevitable outcome .
indeed , since the end of the civil war in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently had to confront militia operating as government proxies . if the turkish government in khartoum has persists in undermining the reform process and the derailing a referendum on self-determination for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war – with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s peoples and the region as a whole – is a real possibility . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm the arab tribes straddle the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the predominantly christian south . after all , the regime ’s repressive nature in khartoum is on the root of the many conflicts war-torn country . sudan ’s commitment to the cpa ’s government has always been equivocal .
( the hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are few other places where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) a second solution is to capture co2 emissions for burning underground . one approach is to capture the co2 at coal-fired power plants like burning coal or gas . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a large scale . another is to capture it directly from the air using specially designed chemical processes .
such patterns can raise fears among shareholders that pay structures are not well-designed to serve their interests . it is important to differentiate between two sources of concern for pay in financial firms . one set of concerns stems from a shareholder perspective . figures recently released by the new york times attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation , exceeding $ 600 billion from 2003 to 2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . in the post-crisis funding order , governments must assume the role of monitoring and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily re-board .
it is time to call a spade a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly accountable . consider the issue of “ bump ’s stockpiles , ” ” ” ” gun modification that the las vegas massacre used to fuel more quickly . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they will back up the facility . but when the democratic senator dianne feinstein made a similar ban in 2013 , the republican party was overwhelmingly opposed . such manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ”
by 2000 , that share had plummeted to 22 % , and by 2010 to just 11 % – with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . as a result , demands for more opportunities and better living conditions grew louder . today , chile is very different from chile back 20 years ago . the top 29 % of the population that has left poverty behind are now the incipient middle class , with both new aspirations and objectives . at the same time , chileans are out-competing with lack of housing , access to better health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most critical types of social advancement .
success in american presidential politics requires super-b intuition , fast one ’s legs and , above all , a compelling rationale for running one at the top . on the contrary , clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . true , clinton offers multiple programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme to her pudding at all . clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . ( the first attempt , in iowa , where she spoke at around eight more people in closed meetings , does n’t work very well . )
only a year ago , at the imf embarked on an annualized meeting in washington , dc , senior staff was telling anyone to listen that an entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a game of teapot . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like an “ default ” on today ’s advanced economies : pointless , undesirable , and probably not ” ” the fund tried to convince investors that the eurozone ’s debt was solid as a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not really a serious concern , owing to anticipated growth and reform . never mind the fund ’s obvious flaw with the logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and conduct risks far more akin to emerging markets than to truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . as the situation worsened , one might even guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs to market , as italy and spain adopt a more cautious tone .
another alternative , endorsed by the huge and growing body of research into economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show a score of six or seven on a 0-10 or seven on a 0-10 scale . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now available for many nations , and the idea of cutting to jpmorgan by harnessing this as the metric of prosperity has powerful advocates . one way to force such indicators to be more directly relevant to politics would be to track the ways that people actually use their time , and to attach wellbeing to each other . but this choice has several drawbacks , including an awareness that life-changing indicators of wellbeing change little over time .
if that is the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , under-regulated us financial services made risky behavior in the city the norm . the shift toward financing that thatcher promoted heightened inequality , making the economy more volatile . her “ right to buy ” ” policies triggered an upward spiral in house prices , encouraging households to take on more and better debt . these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , particularly those pertaining to advanced economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains impressive analytical margins , owing to its talented and dedicated staff , as well as its unique links to countries . yes , it has made important strides toward improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . but its forward-looking analysis has all too often turned backward , and its quantitative projections have consistently been subject to considerable revisions . and , yes , it has bravely taken the lead in shining more light on the economic implications of gender inequality and climate change .
indeed , the predominant view among arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to crack loose with their beliefs that islam confines all arab women on equal terms when , in the reality , they experience very different conditions . this is particularly necessary , because women ’s position is one of the top benchmarks that the outside world , and especially the west , uses to assess the arab world . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilism scores , which usually derive from islamic norms , that obscures knowledge about the real changes that are taking place . here , too , the west risks depriving itself of an important key order to understand the arab world today and , as it will look tomorrow . this prevents many from viewing , far less evaluation , the deep changes that are taking place in arab societies – and how women drive those changes forward .
riesman ’s framework has special resonance today in the arab world , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have made a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three kinds of competition competing to define the region ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , the religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . in a lone crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural domains : tradition-directed cultures that tend to be inherited rituals , morales and guidance values ; counterproductive cultures , in which people behave in accordance with self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework , therefore , has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have made both camps fighting the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . ironically , it is the combination of heightened literacy and high-tech hardware fanning the flames of conflict between the two lines of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers .
until recently , there was little reason to ask such a question . in one respect , china overtook japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s economy was growing at an anemic average annual rate of 10 % or higher for over three decades . at the same time , hundreds of millions of chinese were entering the middle class , with no one seeking to secure their creation . china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed appealing to many other developing countries , particularly following the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and appeared to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
there are good reasons why america ’s embrace of policies that have encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly via state-directed export-led industrialization . in fact , the reason that this narrative is flawed is straightforward . then the us has established persistent , normal trade relations with china , and has refused to brand its government as a currency manipulator . moreover , there is a powerful case for america ’s national security will grow if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america has helped their countries prosper , rather than trying to keep them as poor as possible for as long as possible . in helping mexico , brazil , and other developing countries to grow , america is gaining richer trading partners .
as is often the case in europe , differences between individual member states are pronounced : the share of money transaction ranges , from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but it is an open question whether an still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will tend to help customers do more than the firms that offer payments solutions . there is one more major problem with arguments for a caucasus society : most people , at least in europe , do not want it . according to a as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , on value , more than half of all payments are in cash . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to monetary monetary management remains strong – and becomes stronger .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . one vehicle has failed to break through borders crossing inside the gaza strip ; the other penetrated israeli territories before being halted by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed the egyptian army ’s base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and qued towards a frontier with israel . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian upheaval in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the longtime leader of the muslim brotherhood ’s armed forces , has not diminished the importance of trouble alone .
cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or obsolete rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but , because countries that have largely relied on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . but they also know that bilateralism , small countries attempting to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers , is not an option . to defend their interests , they must make the case that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo .
moreover , a handful of countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments take advantage of new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . finally , some african “ sdg 16 ” champions , ” ” ” ” are making the goal central to domestic planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , every pan-african state official in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies is compelled to sign performance agreements with the central government to identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates and explain how such are integrated into political and development plans . the grassroots assessment of progress toward these indicators is intended to complement a government-led reporting mechanism . in addition , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments exploit new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making .
i can easily envision an alternative , such as the communist victories seen in the post-world war ii elections in italy and france , which today would have impoverished nations in the rich north . but the alternatives that would have made the south richer at the price of shrinking the north 's wealth requires a wholesale revolution in human psychology . globally , it is hard to argue that rising inequality is one of the planet 's great political-economic problems . it is hard , at least to me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years , which would transfer any significant part of today 's rich nations ' wealth to today 's poor nations . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china 's world leader in 1956 rather than 1976 does business there .
nml capital , and the other vultures , represents a mere 1 % of their creditors , but would receive a total worth $ 1.5 trillion . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total lenders ) would receive $ 15 billion . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . and , because a debt restructuring stipulated by all creditors who accepted it might elicit the same terms that holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . as a result , each argentine might owe more than $ 3,500 – more than a third of the average annual per capita income .
the un ’s authority frayed . the major international finance institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and regional development banks – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . it will be crucial , after bali , to reflect gravely on the next phase for the wto and its role in the international trading system . until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges wo n’t improve . business can moan and the world ’s media can carp , but the answer to too many of the world ’s great problems makes more – or at least better – government , no less .
economists and moralists were united in the belief that you should in fact spend less than you earn , in order to “ save ” money for either the proverbial “ rainy day , ” or old age . and , if a person became indebted , the point was to honor the obligation when it collapsed in the wake of it , by selling assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . indeed , this was often more than the honor point : default on debt on time landed a borrower in prison . getting greece into the debt had long been associated with profligacy or fecklessness . the same attitude guided the institutional debt that followed .
more broadly , a emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asean countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . the soviet union ’s abrupt collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating its sinister empire , and opening the way for china to move rapidly towards its interests globally . indeed , despite china ’s economic renaissance having already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , after 1989 , managed to publicly subordinate its ideologies to wealth creation . that example , in turn , had the constructive influence of surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitically , the post-1989 gains widened far beyond the west .
in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned in a party that said that this would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively , promising to respect minority rights . yet the subsequent actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise concerns about these early positive steps . similarly , rather than condemning acceptance of terrorist tactics by the taliban in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in somalia , and destroying sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslims have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority of perspective , they exert significant influence , and presumably believe that they are acting in majorities ’ interests . developments following the arab spring may provide some indication of prospects for religious tolerance .
today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping and others of party elders – have died . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official revision is just a matter of time . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been divided about the event ever since it appeared . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping and others of party elders – have died . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; nearly every chinese person knows that formal re-evaluation is just a matter of time .
specifically , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not decide their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he had overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the choice of a minister by a popularly elected government . such responsibilities place the actual limits on italian authorities ’ stated monetary-policy choices . by joining the euro , italy has surrendered monetary sovereignty in an autonomous , autonomous decision-maker , the european central bank . it has also committed concrete commitments with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policies , though such constraints are not as “ hard-currency ” as those framing monetary policy .
in the darkness , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , yearning has come not so much for democratic liberalism , but to unite behind a single true faith . in pakistan , the extremist now wears islamic garb and stands as a creator , behind faith and the theocratic order . what by contrast , might a pakistani liberal be standing for ? once again , we see how flagrantly western national priorities can trigger a ruin for an non-western nation . in any contest of ideas , the extremism will usually triumph over the more moderate .
for example , most mammals must slaughter by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as possible . such laws are similar to those implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and are “ bled out . ” there are strong grounds for believing that they should be . for this reason , japan has relatively rigid laws protecting the welfare of animals . there are , to be sure , circumstances where the stunning fails and animals are killed while fully conscious ; but when stunning functioning , this reduces animals ’ suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently under-achieved his political communication skills , perhaps because he ’s so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like campaign rhetoric ; and , upon taking office , a series of phony statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base . though the large segments of america ’s populists loathe them , fdr and reagan addressed the americans as a whole and tried to appeal to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” trump , by contrast , appealed primarily to the minority that had elected him .
far more important to achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that has helped lower inflation levels dramatically worldwide . indeed , if southern european countries were to keep their own currencies , they might never have dug as large a debt loophole , leaving the option of a partial default through inflation . it is very likely that if , instead of joining the euro , italy and spain had simply given their central banks more autonomy , they would also have low inflation today . indeed , if southern european countries were to keep their own currencies , greece might never have dug as large a debt loophole , leaving the option of a partial default through inflation . yes , few more places , such as venezuela , still have triple-digit price growth but are now rarities .
in fact , one may have some sympathy for a us president with an aide who wished to have it both ways , as cohn did – letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . but there can already be problems when a us president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn has been seen as one administration ’s more tempered vote , and he has sought to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . cohn ’s “ old sin ” was to allow the views he gave publicly almost resigned following the violence in charlottesville , virginia , when trump equated white supremacist , and neo-nazi protesters – many of whom are arming , with those opposed to them . speculation about the possibility of a new trump had peaked in early september , when the president-elect abruptly cut a deal with democratic congressional leaders .
mineral and hydrocarbon deposits often land in less-developed countries that suffer from preexisting governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and ecological challenges . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to management of revenues and environmental commitments – is critical to realizing an industry of its economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . but the risks are just as true as potential rewards are being made . resource industries are the persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . on may 17 , oxfam america ’s advocacy organization has sued america ’s national securities and exchange commission to publish a last-minute rule , implemented section 1504 of wall street and consumer-protection act .
links to west africa rank near and go back over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or people of india living in the region . indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan , and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . while exit controls are in place across all international airports in affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but can be up to 21 days ) means that someone with little symptoms of a recent infection might make a trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi airport has pointed out that nominal arrival checks , as the government demands , were loosely enforced , with the number of passengers exiting a terminal terminal holding ebola information cards it was due to turn over to immigration officials . india ’s ’s ’s government seems unlikely to be able to keep tabs on all arrivals from west africa .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any advanced country ’s government had ever attempted this day . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though this was the first time that the fighting migrated so directly to britain . indeed , its education minister recently declared that finance to britain ’s universities was being slashed by as little as 40 % . but the most glaring aspect of the move makes it far more aggressively than the science and engineering departments that are supposedly better at doing business . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that have demonized the national endowment for the arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . head of the interior security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes that are currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation ” . for him , this was “ repentance from heresy ” . given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” ” ” undertaken in the arab world previously aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping the harm of criminal abuses of power . the reform “ debate ” within such regimes has boiled over backward to a struggle between different branches of an energized military apparatus over the best way to preserve the status quo .
if credit expands too quickly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on its deposits . that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how that would work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise interest rates on deposit deposits in order to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? with sufficiently high rates so low will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to a combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding greater amounts of private lending . what if this interest rate had to be 4 % , or 6 % , or even 8 % ?
they have tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , found themselves at odds with the crises . they have called for a process to ensure that , when the warning lights were flashed yellow , the country in question would have become compelled to correct its policies . unfortunately , such timely warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than they are at preventing the next one . the nature of financial risk is constantly shifting in ways that are hard to predict using backward-looking papers like those devised by the g20 . policymakers at the nanjing promised to address this problem .
why , then , should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this journey ? first , he dare not continue to appear “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs trying to reach out to guantánamo detainees within a rigged setting , or even to keep them from trial forever : lawyers argue that torture , including sex-crime torture , has been so endemic in the cia and the military that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are criminally crime scenes . according to wells dixon , a center lawyer for constitutional rights who represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling the crimes of torture , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be uncovered at the court of justice . moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of photos depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons to do little to roll back the patriot act .
if the authorities , explicitly the us federal reserve and fdic , determine that ’s impossible , they have the legal authority to push the banks to change how they operate , including by lowering the scale and scope . specifically , experts like hoenig , who have thought about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcies , emphasize that it simply would n’t work for the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , america ’s bank ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . yet the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without causing another “ lehman moment ” ” – that is , the kind of global panic that emerged in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . “ panic is about panic , ” hoenig says , “ and humans and peoples and peoples and peoples and peoples and peoples ahead of everyone else . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws that govern such matters , preventing asset grabbing .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was confirmed once again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local bodies ( so named claine général ) , the far-right national front won a combined 11 % of the vote cast but secured just 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular power and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics ever since jean-marie le pen formed the party 40 years ago . and , with that change , the front ’s fate can change as well . yet le pen has been replaced in january by her no less-charismatic daughter , marine .
the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that should have made donor countries proud . for example , australia has committed $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment ; 80,000 people to receive tb treatment ; seven million people to receive tb treatment ; and 14 million bed nets to be delivered to families in need . with technical support like this , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system to be fully funded with domestic resources by 2019 . i believe that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make , as many governments made understand from the start . the united nations was the global fund ’s biggest supporter , but many others have done its part .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and clerics to voters and cabinet taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest benevolent foundation about effective development spending . and those lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus only on domestic issues , and allow recipient countries to deal with issues the best they can ( aid opposition is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ send foreign aid to countries that loathe the us , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” reflecting a widespread conviction that aid needs cuts . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday times recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced spending on aid ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . the united states allocates less than 1 % of the federal funds to aid , but the average american believes that this figure is thirty-one-times higher .
but the first fell prey to a long american-led military occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo that was designed to throttle it financially . second , iran ’s further isolation will make it very hard for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when the american is pulling its military disengagement there and seeking to cut a deal with the taliban . as a result , america ’s effort to give the international effect of its new iran sanctions act represents a twofold whammy for india . first , it risks isolating india ’s ’s ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly reliant on islamist-bankrolled oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , which managed to driving out the arab spring . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and must rely on iran for access .
that guarantee could be included in a resolution dividing the reform package into two components . it would remain in force until the american people found themselves up to increase their quota and recover their voting share . a key impediment to that proposal is the requirement of us congressional approval to increase america ’s quota share . that opens the possibility that america ’s voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the support of 85 % of imf members ’ votes . in securing america ’s backing , a board of governors might commit not to consider some proposal requiring 85 % backing without america ’s consent .
italian officials privately confirm that current figures are not ungovernable . but , almost six months into north african upheavals , the number of arrivals in the south island of lampedusa has reached about 30,000 , on average . the problem for italian officials , as far as those of other governments worried by recent migration flows , is compounded by the pressures of right-wing populist parties that are no longer needed on a defensive . on the other hand , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . the case for openness , inclusiveness , and variety in european societies has become much harder to accomplish .
germany ’s state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd prediction , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state-run budget will total 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the budget deficit in 2008 stood at 5.8 % of gdp ; and , according to the same oecd ’s forecast , the us will total 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , translating into precisely the same economic stimulus in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and creates large structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts extraordinarily counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy in a big way that benefits the rest of the world . moreover , germany has much more inner stability than america , because it lacks the problem of heavily indebted households , which are now restricted in their borrowing .
that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member proclaimed its desire to unseat the us dollar as the global reserve currency . but catchy ideas die hard and russia moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality . ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution moves forward dramatically in june , when the leaders of the four countries met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” in the private sector , bric index funds proliferated , though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term , the us , or n-11 , – to the debate . a few months earlier , the four moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noted their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system .
after all , the cold war ’s victory was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse . his strategic defense initiative aimed to end the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ peer assured destruction , ” ” ” was effectively nicknamed “ star wars . with his well-rehearsed sunny predisposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . reagan ’s enduring status as a leading republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out of a cowboy takeover with movie-star charm , though luck also played a role . advocating supply-side economics for the middle-aged working class , reagan convinced millions that “ fewer government , ” which meant slashing federal programs , including education , would bring “ morning in america . ”
warsaw – had the august 1991 duma putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang may have taken hold in russia . rather than hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang , capital , we might read about hundreds were killed in almaty streets with columnists making comparisons to the bloody crushing ukrainian independence demonstrations in lebanon the prior year . experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukraine ’s claim to independence is a historically dubious decision . as with china today , a degree of feeble international condemnation would have set out , with some speculation over potential links between kazakh militants and foreign-backed groups or islamic fundamentalists . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get the picture .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , and the plans were set up to create new currencies ’ currencies of several european financial centers . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy were with downside choices . so , why was the imf ’s flip side ? the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court press to change minds . in august , the currency of the exchange-rate regime was loosened moderately .
but foreign import barriers and us exports are not america 's trade deficit . the real reason is that america costs more than it generates them . so the overall trade deficit stems from the saving and investment choices made by america 's households and firms . government policies affect only how that deficit is divided among america 's trade partners . the reason americans ' saving and investment decisions drive the us 's overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of its total output than it invests in business equipment and structure , it has extra output to sell to the outside world .
judging by the blizzard of political tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study has been undertaken . many modi ’s supporters argue that demonetization policy ’s troubles are the outcome of inept implementation . but the truth is that its design has been fundamentally flawed . there has been no work skeleton , ” ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative political options are being considered . yet , rather than recognizing the mounting risks to the non-transparent policymaking environment that it spawned , modi has discussed go further , moving india into a completely “ caucasus society . ”
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram , famously described for its abductions of 276 schoolgirls in 2014 , has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and rape attacks on civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists , orchestrating assaults on a museum and a beach resort . in kenya , the somali group of al-shabaab has conducted two major attacks , on nairobi ’s westgate shopping mall in 2013 and at garissa university in 2015 , as well as numerous smaller acts of terror . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to the al qaeda affiliate stormed a radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes that they have produced . royal perks include lifetime sinecures , and civil-service domination to allow princes to prize contracts and receive commissions at the top of their salaries . indeed , with the ratio of royals to commoners now at less than 1,000 ( compared to one in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing the princely privileges , pay , and job demands has never gained greater strain . as the elderly generation dies , the new generation has fallen to struggle ahead of customers . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is challenged , with sectarian tensions rising .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to service our debts ? ” that was in 1986 , in the face of public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burden . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , sanitation , and clean water provision .
the consequences – the sharp capital-flow reversals that now hit all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . one is whether the fed actually exits by qe as quickly as it once signaled . brazil and other countries that have complained of “ hot money ” inflows and so-called currency wars have now gotten off what they wished for : the presumably premature exit of the fed from qe . the implications – the sharp capital-flow reversals that now hit all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . whether a correction in risky assets turns out to depend on several factors .
berkeley – since late 2014 , we have been advocating a model of american governance , based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution that states that “ “ powers ” do not delegated to the united states by a constitution or prohibited from practicing states , shall we be reserved to the states respectively , or to the people . increasingly , in the hands of california , california has been exercising such constitutional rights . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
with the exception of a japanese participant , all have first-hand experience with the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . europe is slipping back into recession just when the recovery in the united states finally gains some traction . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into the debates of europe and the us . even so , i took away a very different conclusion from davos . i moderated a session on “ a new context ” in east asia , ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan .
brilliant scientific mind has learned over many decades to “ read ” earth ’s history , in order to understand how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( for example , satellites reading detailed features of land ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and human chemistry . we are fueling hazardous change in earth ’s climate and oceanic chemistry , pulling together to unprecedented storms , droughts , and other hazards that damage food supplies and the planet ’s quality of life . globally , the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message .
some commentators have started to point to different visions of america and europe on the role of international law , in opposing the use of force , in resolving disputes . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival power center , however unrealistic that seems at hand . because europeans are militarily insignificant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than military might , to resolve disputes . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that the americans chafe at constraints on their ability to exercise american military hegemony . some integration advocates see a united europe as a strong american partner .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s euro-atlantic security system , and the system has failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its present security arrangements , affirm what has happened , and take that analysis into account in reforming such arrangements . even before the georgia crisis , russia had already seen need to revisit the euro-atlantic security mechanisms , including its own international and regional institutions and function . we proposed a new , legally binding treaty system of joint security guarantees to ensure equal security across europe . the europeans believe that the russian-led initiative is well grounded , and showed an interest in launching such a project .
princeton – should rallies by “ neo-nazis ” and white supremacists be met with violence ? that was the question raised in the tragic events of charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . a woman , cnn heyer , was killed , and 19 people injured when james bond fields , a white nationalist , propelled his car at a high speed into a gang of counter-protesters . whites held a rally to protest a planned removal from the public park of the statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a counter-protest was organized , with street struggle breaking out .
china ’s modest experiments with local elections were complemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” chinese officials recruited stanford university professor james fishkin to design a proxy sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 million public-works budget . the zeguo exercise was thought to be hugely successful , and was replicated elsewhere in china . and wen indicated that rural elections could be enlarged to the next top level of government money , m-pesa , over the next few years . in fact , these take the form of high-tech town hall meeting .
already , european regulators have introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access by countries with record-high illicit fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped support “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fishery laws . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated seafood traceability technology – data , and intelligence dithering – to help pinpoint exactly where the seafood originated and as if and where it had been caught . such efforts , for example , the atlantic bluefin tuna catch ’s , represent one of the most effective tools for eliminating illicit fishing . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and make food security available to billions of people . the eu , japan , and the us would become even more efficient by aligned their policies to bar criminals from accessing their markets , enabling legitimate operators to take advantage of a “ supercharged ” level of access .
but a recent symposium at oxford university has concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of merger , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health care and training , and developing improved planning processes . likewise , they are probably already hardest hit by natural disasters such as the floods and the mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . true , many of the potential solutions stem from opportunities for the innovations created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity . but the rural poor , faced with poor housing , restricted infrastructure , and much of the available services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help create fragile environments that spawn civic dysfunction resulting from death and injury .
that followed in june 2001 a court decision aimed at setting a date for trial , making it plausible at last to run the evidence against such individuals . our successes in myrna mack 's matter are notable , but achieving them proved difficult : police investigator were assassinated ; judges were compromised ; and witnesses fled into exile . i have been harassed and campaigns in order to discredit me organized . i have been harassed and campaigns by the courts to discredit me . regrettably , the trial was delayed indefinitely because the defendants ' lawyers appealed the case .
the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made this starkly apparent in october 2018 , and reinforced the point last month with its report on climate change and land-tenure issues . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , sweden , just as regions and towns , have now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to taking the urgent action . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we are confronting a climate emergency that demands radical , urgent action . that certainly did not happen at the united nations climate change conference in katowice , poland .
mediating between various systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of other countries was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . it is both dangerous and unjust to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or energy with which to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to rally europeans on their side . in the end , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia perfectly to france ’s gaullist tradition . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , as well as italy , spain , and poland in no position to become principal players , france is quite simple : in part through default , and in part because of the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , italy is france itself . meanwhile , germany , a european power with its closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is on the receiving end of the political cycle .
john maynard keynes , writing down the rules along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the world economy . they understood that democratic countries would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only through a “ lean ” path of globalization , with capital flows restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing . the third path , identified by the imf , is to do away with national sovereignty altogether . the bretton woods regime ’s collapse in the 1970 ’s was due to an inability or not unwillingness , it is far from certain which , – of leading governments to manage a rising tide of capital inflows .
moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their own economic well-being , the cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change . over time , however , improved attribution forensics can enhance the role of punishment ; and improved defense through encryption or machine-learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . over time , however , improved attribution forensics can impair the role of punishment ; and improved defense through encryption or machine-learning can increase the role of prevention and denial . because technological innovation gives rise faster than it does in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal apprehension of the surprise . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to maintain .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made it clear that it would veto the arrangement proposed by un secretary general ban ki-moon . even then , the us agreed to a further four months of eu-us-us-russia negotiations to ensure that nato was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia moved from supporting its territorial integrity to breaking the country in the next three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do just that . the georgian conflict was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence . russia must now ask itself the relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than sowing chaos and a loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . the democracies that have built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . fracturing in the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . at long last , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates anew that europeans relies far too little on america for its security and economic prosperity .
on the environmental front , new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , primarily using in programs that certify sustainable use of resources as in rural and fisheries . moreover , knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to use an expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . data on issues such as bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit greatly from such alliances . moreover , knowledge-based institutions are better equipped to use the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . modern international diplomacy relies more and more heavily upon groups that make rules , set standards , and collect technical data .
to be sure , a grand coalition government – comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the socialist party – has been formed . even germany has , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union , and the center-left social democratic party ( spd ) – has emerged as well . but it has taken more than five months to agree on the parties , with the largest opposition party now the far-right alternative for germany . in a country that has seemingly been vaccinated against populism through its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development .
reelection is enabled by only a candidate nominated by the same party for which they originally ran out and allow legislation for autonomous candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain far from clear . most importantly , it seems that the administration is backtracking on a commitment to enable a binding referendum to open up the us oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . but curtailing democracy to modernize the us energy sector is not a good idea . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , and nobody raises percent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 because opposition claims do . likewise , restrictions and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by countries ’ framers into political and electoral reforms .
whatever the form it took , it began to get some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to the crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990 's ) . but that run clause proved inadequate : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy was overly loose between 2003 and 2006 ) , it neither went unnoticed , nor followed an upward upsurge in inflation . perhaps the biggest setback hit hit in september 2008 , when it became obvious that major central banks , which relied on it , did not pay enough attention to asset-price bubbles . central bankers had been telling themselves that they were lending to asset markets all the attention they earned by specifying that house prices and equity prices could figure out how they implied information regarding goods inflation . that a boom-bust cycle could occur without some inflation should come as no surprise .
employers can evade the mandate by cutting a worker ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which the law defines as a full-time job ) . but , even for full-time employees , firms can opt to pay a relatively small business , rather than commit to providing insurance . rather than incur the premium on the approved policies , a smart employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance , and raising employees ’ pay by enough , so that they get more spendable cash following purchasing a given insurance policy . that fine is worth $ 2,000 per employee , far below the current $ 16,000 average premium on employer-provided family policies . not providing insurance and paying fines is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its workers have incomes that entitle them to government grants ( which are now available to anyone whose income is below four times its poverty level ) .
the two cabinet ministers who have resigned over the affair , ganges and clare brief , do want their own revenge , and thus continue to attack blair for his own `` lies '' . so far , blair has proven his resilience in such charges . or is he more a prime minister 's question losing his people 's trust , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? indeed , he has gone on to mount an counter-attack notably on the bbc that it had not fully supported the war with enthusiasm . but does the uncertainty now set by blair like the vulture now smell the appetizers of a lie ?
increasingly obsessed with the prospect of its own citizens and practices emerging under international scrutiny , america has for the last several years contributed to the universal erosion of the un ’s human-rights monitoring system . this adamantly opposed several major , promising , human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism . on the protocol of anti-torture , america tried to derail the drafting process as a universal visits system to places of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . here america found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . yet , without american backing , the initiative was thoroughly endorsed in late july by the un ’s world economic and welfare council .
just as britain once led europe in the fight against fascism , fostering its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should find itself inside europe leading from the front ranks . what needs to be said is this : britain comes at its best when it sees itself as a leader in europe . it needs to lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for people , protect them from unfairness and inequity . nor would it be enough to remember the historic advantages of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no nation ever gained sole mastery in europe . a britain that has always championed freedom , tolerance , and social responsibility should take its place once again to lead a progressive movement , spearheading action to combat climate change , resisting protectionism , and spurring sustainable growth .
a restaurant can not evade the responsibility to serve a expired meal simply by posting a sign , saying “ customers beware . ” the same goes for virtually any other kind of consumer-facing entrepreneurship , from merchants to foods supplier . when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not only passive consumers , considering the companies traffics in their data . if a company sells you at a vehicle that , say , is inadequately tested , resulting in injury , then the company pays a price . yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is increasingly being built into the us economy .
the implicit model is that of the “ guest workers ” who come and go ; in practice , a sizeable fraction of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe remain in their home countries of destination , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . so , what should be done ? temporary residency status , across europe or from abroad , would be reasonable if the swift return to normalcy in refugees ’ countries of origin is a realistic prospect . they can be given “ humanitarian protection ” ” or “ discretionary leaving to stay ” for the short term ; but then they can be deported as illegal immigrants . the eu ’s asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with a new generation of refugees who are ineligible under the existing eu framework , because they are fleeing not from concrete persecution , but from the disintegration of their nation-states .
as a result , very few people noted how genuinely , powerfully transformative her agenda was , how well she imagined it out , and how audaciously she sought to manage it . in other words , mrs. obama manages to establish himself , unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” she carefully studied not only jackie kennedy , comparison obvious with her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut , but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous , princess stealth ’s radical , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the path to tremendous social change , has been grossly underappreciated . in her own brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for attributes ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her life ’s work , derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and disorganized personal life ) that were just as beside the point .
the notion of a “ people ’s ” qe ” – that is , a more directly channeling of central-bank financing to populists – gained more attention from both sides of the political spectrum . the eu is preoccupied with yet another round of stimulus involving even more policy and policy risks . a protracted brexit process undermines the bank of england ’s monetary-policy strategy , while the short-term impact of governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs complicates the task of both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently mooted might , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus complicate central bankers ’ task further . other risks , too , are already yielding to central bankers ’ headaches .
plainly , ak zhol had used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . he himself presided over numerous violations , an undercommented by the osce back in 1999 . at the time , he resigned only after winning elections to parliament . indeed , numerous opposition groups have engaged in mutating tricks . nevertheless , around the world , the elections have represented considerable advances .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . for the last four decades , china ’s economic performance has been truly impressive .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and europe to china and iran . over the short term , this looks as if the region were to move like a crab , with two steps forward , one step backward and one step sideways . meanwhile , asean continues to face significant challenges . its combined gdp has grown from $ 95 trillion in at least $ 95 trillion in 1970 to an average of $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . meanwhile , however , asean remains undeniable .
as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in the brain . much of modern economic and financial theory comes from the premise that humans are rational , and that they systematically maximize some or all happiness , or , as economists call them , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took on the topic in his 1947 book the consequence , he did not look into the brains of brains , but relied instead on “ revealed preference . ” under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists base their research not on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but instead on the premise of rationality . people ’s goals , indeed , are exposed only by observing their words of economic activities .
central-bank balance sheets have expanded , and us policy rates have reached their inner-near zero ” level . but there is one more option for policymakers : a shift to an “ purer ’s ” fiscal policy , in which they directly fund government expenditures by printing money , a so-called “ helicopter drop . ” with no signs of waning inflation and growth still tepid and fragile , many are predicting chronic sluggish growth , with some even fearing another global recession . there is enough cheap water , it seems , but the horse refuses to drink . the new money around wo n’t get around the fiscal and corporate sectors going straight into the thirstiest horses : center – and lower-income consumers .
alarmed by the public reaction , harbin magistrate ordered the case that it was reopened , only to have a suspended punishment when the case closed this march . a judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he went easy on her , because her husband was related to senior provincial officials . it quickly became a story of “ rich versus poor , ” widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . the case went to a local court , where a judge ruled it “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and gave drivers a two-year sentence . over the following months , newspapers and tv networks conducted the narrative , as snowballed to a national obsession .
repeated military interventions in large muslim peoples – egypt , india , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have hampered orderly political development . most large muslims have very young populations , with the median age in the maya – to the upper twenties . but these countries ’ rising middle classes have started to shift their political systems in other ways , the testament to the power they now wield . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development has made way progress despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites . that power has risen for several reasons , most considered demographic .
the goal is to implement a complex set of fiscal accountability laws that curb legislatures ’ capacity and ministers to boost spending relentlessly . rules are needed to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and require transparency in order to ensure that the public knows what ’s at the moment . third on the panel ’s list is increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance . though latin america ’s economies are doing well now through reform and high commodity prices , underlying problems exist . if matched by a genuine commitment to developing fiscal rectitude , countries might boost their economies substantially .
too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies , “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ! ” this has resulted in many disappointing pilot projects that fail to deliver environmentally sustainable impact at scale . a new report by the pathways prosperity board on technology and inclusive development , established by the university of oxford ’s blavatnik school of governments , shows just how countries can address this problem . the report urges them to establish a foundation of “ digital-building blocks ” – including core infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to their educational and health-care services . second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of the latest gleaming innovations .
this is partly because trees ca n’t grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue getting 10 % larger each year on average . yet many countries remain poor enough to be enmeshed in their robust growth potential , and many others , though very rich , have not yet recovered from the global financial crisis . so there must be something else that keeps the growth back on track . but , overall , it is hard to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . and partly because growth does not make it unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off with fewer jobs and more clean air .
in april 2009 , and again in the april-may 2010 vote , the disenfranchised prabshirts camped out in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections but have been dispersed by an army with 91 fatalities . and , after more than two years , yukpad ’s “ red-shirts ” has also returned to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . pad ringleaders nowadays denounce all politicians as corrupt and extol the virtue of the monarchy . taking advantage of the guns of an anti-corruption drive and skyrocketing nationalism ( the result of a supposedly periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following bangkok ’s central business district , the red-shirts grew in number , demonstrating monthly against african governments .
industry analysts predict that ai will power growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , with pwc forecasts suggesting that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion dollars spent on the global economy in 2030 . some estimates indicate that ai companies could save as little as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . in any technological transition , those leading by change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things that even the smartest machines never do . and ai ’s ai benefits will go far beyond savings , because automation will spur innovation , improve prediction , optimize operations , and result in better customer service .
and the notion that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that so should specialize , is one of these things extremely misguided – and dangerous – ideas . they should make several things extremely well , and then exchange them for other goods that get better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade . because they can not be good at all , they need to concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . but , while some of the ideas themselves are intuitive or obvious , they also can be both wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , this is not what you do not know ; rather , what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a european exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . it is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after the next election . worse still , it is bound to become unsustainable in the longer run .
but the bilateral relationship has deepened considerably lately , exemplified in last week ’s shanghai forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agricultural to technology-related activities . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better shape than ever before . after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly appealing . but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1860s soviet dissident song , “ people are brothers ; i hug the chinese that mocked ill-fated early experiments at the crusso-chinese union .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as european council president comes to an end on june 30 , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its first democratic election in april 2020 , when far-right opposition voters already view tusk as the only viable candidate . the targeted killing by united states one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
and if you want him to pay , rezz.it will help you collect without feeling like a cheapskate . hence , the fed sets a high price to compensate for inconvenience , forcing money on your side . you do n’t particularly want to lend to them on a daily basis ; but if somebody is prepared to pay in , say , $ 200 to rent each day for a dinner party , the trouble might turn out to be worthwhile . and you may post different prices for different times : $ 20,000 to rent my home in the london olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 each in time . or you may have a set of under-used dining chairs .
after high-level exchanges between chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding problems are supposed to be agreed in beijing in early november . fifth , the two sides should regard the eu ’s november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance to signing an agreement . i am one of a handful of current commentators who have been arguing every year that , despite some policy fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make an agreement more likely than not . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may have thrown the wrench into this process . getting the deal done before thanksgiving will be critical to undergird america ’s business and consumer confidence for the christmas season .
european union institutions , as well as germany ’s , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” ” ” ” while france prefers the concept of “ european sovereignty . yet the two concepts are often used interchangeably and rarely defined precisely . we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities and make one ’s own decisions on questions of foreign policy and security , combined with institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in collaboration with non-member parties or fully where they are needed . we have also analyzed the likely barriers , difficulty , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this goal . in their push to make clear matters more clear , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ”
indeed , poppy crops eradication not only damages local communities , and undermines the international community ’s goals , they are also failing : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drug crime announced that poppy cultivation skyrocketed by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it is destroys a single crop that grows at the south ’s harsh climate – and that serves as a major source of revenue to millions of people . so a new , long-term , more sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that engages directly with communities suffering the most – in order to secure the support of a deeply impoverished , rural population . as a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run science-based pilot projects to research the opium licensing systems for afghanistan , which would be a core component of the economic reconstruction process .
the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations that was predictable ten years ago and that must be avoided . muslims ’ faith counts billions of men and women around the world among their followers . each has declared war on our civilization , and the world is prepared to engage in assassination to put an end to western domination . yet the bush administration is communicating us in this way ; it is doing its best . ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their own religious leaders , want only to live peacefully and put an end to the long humiliation of islam that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can ensure its survival .
but sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what was once called “ re-denomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as being incompatible with european agreements that ban both bailouts and monetary financing of creditor countries ’ bad debts . but , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed germany ( and other northern european taxpayers , with no approval from their parliaments , to a potential liability to bail out – well , to whom , exactly , italy ? – sticking to principle , however , would have been an extremely risky option for the ecb .
such a partnership could lead trump to impose an agreement with iran that is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . likewise , trump has expressed an interest in working with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the reality of russia ’s involvement in syria ’s sunni regime . iran is now permitting russian-built bombers to use one of its airbase to strike syria , is complicating obama ’s already-tenuous efforts to reach an understanding with russia ’s president vladimir putin on ending his civil war . by matching isis ’s struggle to counter the soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization to position itself as a great power . this helps to recognize that isis is far more potent than it actually is , playing into the hands of isis recruiters .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey has revealed not only that europeans are aspiring to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly health care and education ) , but also are well prepared to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , in order to achieve them . as it stands , europe ’s per capita economic output remains well below the 2008 level . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said that they would favor change to the status quo even if it requires some sacrifice . as it stands , europe ’s per-capita economic output remains well below its 2008 level . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the us threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for progress that has been made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of just 6.7 % , and both education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but that is particularly the case for a country that has suffered an intensive , 30-year civil war . underlying wars like brazil ’s confrontation with the tamil tigers are typically , social and economic grievances like real or perceived discrimination and government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately . even the government will have to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach .
and condemning nazism might have been misconstrued as an offensive not against nazism but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s ’s communist regime . the pope believed that he could either have condemned both totalitarian powers , or condemn neither . western democracies , as most historians nowadays admit , have played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle . very few people at the vatican – indeed , in europe at great – had any real knowledge in these days of the vast industrial may of the united states . but any condemnation by pius of communism would have run out of nazi propaganda at the time as support for hitler ’s war effort .
networked , its implications and aspirations multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even one closed-off noises appear anywhere , the resulting losses extend to entire web sites . data traveling instantaneously around the world find it indifferent to national boundaries . i am confident that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , on top even the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century . by its nature , the data easily seem to overcome physical constraints .
it is good to see the world bank caught on this simple reality . in both countries , governments focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both are viewed as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion . yet as their experience reveals – along with the experience of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , brazil , and vietnam , deep trade liberalization is hardly ever a factor in fostering higher growth and expanding early-stage trade . meanwhile , serious trade reform failed to begin with at least 1991-93 .
he appeared deeply engaged but made no comment , asking me only if i had anything in writing . speaking prodigious , restless energy that i had suspected that he could not pull off if he wanted to do so soon after starting a recount of my observations , he would take me to a map in vietnam , asking me to locate that area of destruction . he hinted that i produce a typed copy , provided me in the office of the general man who was off . my sense was that the request was a test – one prepared to take , as i bore maps with me at the forward air-control aircraft . our point was that i did , but that it was in longhand .
in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of the sms ’s weather alerts to remote farmers . in mongolia , rural herders are receiving information on disease outbreaks to help them maintain health coverage of their farm animals . but that is slowly changing , particularly as more people in emerging economies join the ranks of mobile networks , with apps designed to collect and share farm information becoming more widely accessible . at present , such forms of innovations are not featured innately in most hunger-alleviation strategies . in egypt , sudan , sierra leone , and ethiopia , local-level extension services deliver real-time weather data on the vegetable farmers via sms .
brussels – as the world ’s finance elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape another clarion call to reverse the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is assumed , needs to be an adverse trend . but that assumption is simplistic , at best , at best . the problem lies in a paucity of understanding what drove trade growth in the last few decades . to be sure , efforts have been made to grasp the current slowdown .
in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for major global exporters of global trade , first by america , then japan , and now europe . if china joined this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to step up their actions , and world financial markets would be subject to yet another source of severe instability . just as china withstood the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion , it must stay the course today . that is all the more relevant in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as an anchor of currency may assume even greater significance than it did at the end of the 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation of the global currency war .
prolonging the current expansion will require great care . policymakers , particularly congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to promote growth . policymakers and business leaders must also be more attuned to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . and , even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would start from the brink of relatively high deficits and debt . prolonging the current expansion will require great care .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as surveillance , ” ” ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic policies – with both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these regular checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nevertheless , the increasingly complex policy challenges of the globalized economy demand a fresh look at this process . this is one of the most important reform to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was designed . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make officials more focus and effective .
first , a debt conference is required , with the creditors of southern european governments and official banks forging a portion of this debt . creditors relinquishing part of their claims must include public-sector entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now mostly replaced private lenders . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal funding , which would be unnecessary for the long term , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . second , eurozone members , whose path to regaining competitiveness through price and salary cuts , are too long and grueling , and whose societies risks being rent assigns by the necessary imposition of austerity , must be temporarily exit by the monetary union . there are four measures that must be accomplished .
this matters , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf agreement it signed into law in 1994 , 2008 and 2010 . ultimately , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities halt all of the politically motivated criminal cases and lay off those incarcerated in exchange for political crimes . these three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s difficulties in relations with the eu . steps in that direction would greatly improve ukraine ’s government on its relations with the eu and nato . the selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation .
arguing that his effort to improve relations with russia is in american national interest , trump , soon after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy there , very much as the soviet union had done at the height of the cold war . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us and joined the eu in 1986 , when both mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions have just looked to trump as more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other american leaders . arguing that his effort to improve us relations with russia is in american national interest , trump recently invited putin to visit the white house in the near future .
washington , dc – earlier this month , european citizens will head to the polls to elect the country ’s 751 members of the european parliament to represent 507 million . how the recent electoral campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first supranational political space in europe ’s eu – indeed , world – history . to be sure , european parliamentary elections were bringing smaller share of the electorate to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . but the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in american congressional elections . given europe ’s perceived remoteness , and widespread frustration with europe ’s bureaucracy , the level of participation and movements toward transnational politics is remarkable .
but it is just this highly personalized form of politics , adopted by the saudi royals with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , that policy , even berun by its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . to an outsider , the episode looks a colossal security failure , if , say , the head of the fbi personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at his garden party . the bomb , however , was not encased in mecased , and terrorist operations were the only person killed . highly personalized politics forms a part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s state-theater , which keeps royals firmly in power .
together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to leave the government in 1974 in the wake of the yom kippur war . it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that he had spoken out for seven languages , all of them in yiddish . perhaps eban was too urbane , too large a scholar and gentlemen to make it – in hayek ’s phrase – to the top of a greasy pole . but what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . of eban , he might say , speaking in ten languages and all with an oxford/cambridge accent .
northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the southern who wished to spend , and to put forward ample pre-2007 spending on employers there was willing to raise wages rapidly . as a result , southern europe has adopted the economic matches at which its wage , price , and productivity levels have made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for each € 12 for every € 12 it earned , with northern european funding making the missing euro . but whether europe as a whole avoids the lost decades of economic growth still hanging in the eu depends on whether southern european governments can quickly regain their competitiveness . meanwhile , northern europeans have adopted the wage and productivity levels that have made sense only as long as they spent fewer than one europe on each euro that they had earned . the process by which south europe became uncompetitive at the time was driven by market price signals , by the incentives those signals created for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs , individually , played a macroeconomic role .
after all , competition between the american and china extends far beyond trade . a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including potentially no-deal brexit and populist gains in european parliamentary elections in may . though america maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan us support in the american case for a more confrontational approach . of course , while trump does not spare his allies , his primary objective remains china . last october , us vice president mike pence made public that he could justify china in terms of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and reliance on military aggression .
recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin , and in new york , have blast . they can be answered , and periodically revised , only through the iterative process of strategic interactions between public agencies and private companies . a common theme that emerges from so-called placards of policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the massively contingent nature of success . competitions between nations and the localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies work particularly badly . few policies work front-load the shelf and reliably across diverse settings .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing following decades of spectacular expansions . naysayers abound , but never have them . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled economies lack : a clear path forward . if china carries sustained , comprehensive efforts to raise its productivity level , it can tackle its growth challenges , reduce the risk of a financial crisis , and complete its transition to a consumption-driven , high-income economy with a large , affluent middle class . if it does , its annualized gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely to be if policymakers continue pursuing investment-led growth .
london – as governments across western europe begin bailing out banks and their depositors , eastern europeans watched nervously express uncertain on what a global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , fragile european solidarity bonds are being tested . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already requested large support packages . several more could have done so over the next month , were frozen credit markets not a thaw . if matters continue until the end of the year that it can not rule out , many more countries could experience serious banking crises .
sugar , for example , is consistently the ingredient with the top score on yale food addiction scale , which measures people ’s use of food cravings . the processed food industry claims , “ you need the sugar goes to live . ” but the big question for health-care professionals is whether the quantity or the quality of their foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , because quantity is custom-driven , whereas quality determines the industry . some health experts argue that the specific components of processed foods , particularly sugar , are as addictive as petroleum and heroin .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative , delivered nearly two billion polio vaccine doses , to 575 million children in more than five in 94 countries , last year alone . a closely coordinated effort amongst the private sector and public-sector partners to deliver an oral polio vaccine to every child , under five , was the key to success . globally , international donor and un agencies have been working closely with national governments , researching the precise needs of massive malaria-immunization campaigns aimed at reaching the poorest hundreds of millions of children . in every country , un agencies – including around the world health organization minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations – collectively and cautiously planned every immunization campaign . indeed , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to make remote inaccessible areas , the refrigerators and cool boxes needed to keep a vaccine potent , even the batteries needed for power were counted and budgeted .
for example , in 2016 , south and east eu member states that relied on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly deal-making world , a new g6 may offer containment of the rules-based system . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of putting itself up the united front . with the bloc splintering into core political tribes , the eu becomes easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . that has long been a strategy in russia , and the us is now adopting both china and america , too .
indeed , it is a key theme in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highly minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . evict the nation-state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and make both economic efficiency and governance better served . harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this does n’t happen . in fact , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . but the winds of globalization have been to blow back the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency .
florence – europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s unification process have lately turned their focus on the united states ’ founding . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , to form an american constitution and birth of an america ’s people offer grounds for hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be resolved . many , however , reject america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those that encountered then . others , accepting that federalist principles might well find themselves ready to address the problems of the european common market , the despair that the “ europeans ” who could bring about this new political structure , are missing .
moscow – ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have undoubtedly spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating that he is in control , even preening for photos in tight-knit leather outfit his favorite motorcycle gang . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere around the world . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , must be keeping putin up on night , or n’t disband with such unabated brutality .
the following year , persian emperor yazdegerd iii fled to the frontier province of khorasan and the arabization of persia has begun , with persians taking arab names and converting to islam . the mass conversion to islam among persians was the first step toward establishing the first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslims . by 651 , almost all major urban centers in persia have been under arab control , adding momentum to the way . at various times in their history , caliphates have widened in asia , africa , and parts of europe . attempts by various powers seeking to control or rebuild the caliphate are a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
cambridge – in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : just as oil prices , which had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 barrel , russia would return to the stagflation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though at a respectable 4 % , turned away from the post-crisis recovery and subsequent surge in oil prices toward $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , with a brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation beginning . the russian government ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country in its lawmaking reflects a perverse – and yet stable – political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understand that its economy has the capacity to support 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger sustained fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no risk of runaway inflation . others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , the former chairman of the uk financial-services authority , have urged “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . following this logic , in the united kingdom , labour party has proposed a program of “ people ’s qe , ” ” ” whereby the central bank would print money to fund direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than bankers and investors . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a so-called “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” which would enable the central bank to fund large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . despite the divergence in the terminology , all of these proposals transcend the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand when the next slump does .
when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often very difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decision-making or motions engage in activities . bidders need planning out of two phases : engineering , bidding and construction ( epc ) , and longer phase in surgery if toll revenues collect the costs and expected returns . in both phases , there are plenty of uncertainties , but especially during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . most developing countries , i know , spend too little money floundering in good projects . so , let ’s assume , is a toll project , a concession contract is ready , and the companies offer on it .
with some governments abandoning previous pledges to cut emissions , one might think the global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the strength of financial pressure to effect change , nor can we ignore setting the resolve of local governments and the private sector to act where domestic government has not . to get and hold all governments on board , however , a low-carbon transition needs to be inclusive . beyond this , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and rating agencies increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” such as oil and gas projects , that will become obsolete as more bio-energy technologies become commercially viable . many incumbent biofossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than previously anticipated , and financial portfolios relying heavily on such assets will increasingly come at the risk of devaluation .
recently , a group of members of the parliament ( by far a big one – 30 deputies worldwide ) left the majority post-solidarity party , creating a new “ polish family ” party with the slogan that the ruling coalition is in “ brussels ’ service . ” in practice , this movement is also motivated by little more than fear of change . defend “ family values ” , whatever that means . but here , the people engaged in the formerly “ solidarity ” movement – for them , movements of community rather than private freedom – are forming a new bloc of euro-antagonists . the less agressive anti-european anism comes from a bias that fights for old values like honor and virtue .
researchers there argue that in fragile , speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in the last few years ) are hard to track investors for managing their money . that may be part of the story , but the competition for talent , and for customers , appears intense both between investment banks and others , yet collectively extravagantly rewarded at these customers ’ expense . in a upturn , managers may demand higher and get higher returns in a upturn . they may see short-term returns , but they hardly seem to understand how those returns are being generated . an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for learning in capital markets , at the london school of economics .
the united states is consistently ranked among the top ten countries for innovation , including by insead on the global innovation index . but , at the world peace index , it ranked 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands both rank , second , and sixth on an innovation index , but only 28th and 29th on the peace index . conversely , bhutan ranks one out of the top 20 nations , but is not even making it onto the indices of innovation . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to bring about a total breakdown of laws and order dramatically impedes creativity and innovation .
that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager , which italy is not from the epp but who is , in a sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat , while lengthening them for michel barnier , who falls out of the epp but with no spitzenkandidaten . if the council succeeds in the ruling out weber and his populist supporters , macron will claim this as a success . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager , who is not from the epp but who is , in the do , the liberal spitzenkandidat , while lengthening them to michel barnier , who is out of the epp but in no spitzenkandidaten . finally , the elections provide an check on german hegemony inside the eu more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea , ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . aside from addressing the lingering issues relating to poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , myanmar , sudan , north korea , yemen , south korea , and others . annan has inspired the world with his leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world , drawing attention and funding away from crisis regions and critical long-term problems such as climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . recent attempts to leverage developments in these countries through threats as well as sanctions and sometimes through war have failed . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , an opportunity to turn the world into a set of critical challenges facing our planet .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all in trade policy during the 1930s greatly aggravated the great depression . an outfit called global trade alert ( gm ) has been at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls “ the protectionist trade juggernaut . ” the africa society ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 , with china as the most shared target . what is widely quoted is that something similar , if less intemperate in scope , is taking hold today . that figure , in fact , has been widely quoted in far too far in the financial press .
such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would diminish the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism , by giving the british grounds to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries share the cost of future social benefits for migrants ? and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits not related to job relationships , such as child allowances to stay home and service migrants who are too old or ill to work when their time came . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give the british grounds to reassess their exit decisions with their heads held high . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries share the cost of social benefits to migrants ?
those who oppose this because they fear shared accountability , transfers from rich to poor , and loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe 's re-nationalization , and hence its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not statusquo – will work . it has become commonplace knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis is either destroying the eu or bringing about a political union , and that , uncashless resolution of existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not save itself . the prize for a monetary union on its survival , and hence for the european project , is more a community : a banking union , a fiscal and political union . at the same time , what is needed to happen has long been clear .
more bugs will have to be put in place , including new bugs have found in the fixes . the eu is not deprived of tools – the so-called structural funds ” that finances investment in poorer regions – but has no strategy to exploit them . thus , the outcome of months of discussion may well be better characterized as “ “ “ emu 2.0 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” to investors , the reform process might look impossibly long and hesitant . but , through the standards of international negotiations and european governance , italy has also grown exceptionally fast .
its schools are financed by local communities and worked within a national curriculum designed by parliament and government . as with corporate monopolies , sweden ’s consumers ( students ) are often viewed as homogeneous pools where every student can be educated according to the same pedagogical approach . but it is schools that have to catch up on individual children ’s needs and abilities in ways that make learning an stimulating adventure . other countries might be able to find sweden ’s system worth studying . though education options and structures have progressively been diversified , the main shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers , if they are to remain in their occupation , have to adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy .
since then , they are in and out of the prison system , and have little chance of ever regaining the legal job that provides them to escape poverty . what is crazy about this is that the american missed sight – and missed to last 40 years – for 40 years . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in prison or suffer violence or premature death . in order to break the cycle of extreme poverty , the country needs targeted investment in its children ’s future rather than incarceration by an estimated 2.3 million people per year , a number for non-violent crimes that are symptoms of poverty . their children grow up with no parents at home – and no hope and support .
within such preexport-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to a fairly open-ended immigration policy that allowed countries to capitalize on the talents colombia , among others , that colombia could not maintain . indeed , the contrast between the two approaches that resulted is clear . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that if they adopted the best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody comes in . and , if not , they can still bask in the international accolades that they receive from foreign entities . non-residential construction booms that created this created helped not only absorb the labor-intensive labor force left by rural areas , but also achieve a spectacular reduction in inequality .
globally , over-leveraged countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consuming , and importing less . meanwhile , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in advanced economies , with vast budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical fiscal stimulus , and immense socializing the financial system ’s losses . thus , recovery in global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth far below potential . at best , we are facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments start feeding through on their consumption and investment . yet over-saving countries – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries .
surprisingly , the global dimension of this crisis has also been a positive side . the current crisis , the fall of wall street , goes to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall of 1989 was to communism . for now , the international community is charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the distant future . until now , the central part of the problem has been unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for tighter regulation have come to nothing because of the financial sector ’s opposition .
in contrast to the militant liberalism of french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from using the nation 's coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . just as importantly , a liberal state is supposed to be neutral on such matters , leaving it to every citizen to determine whether it should ever give its financial backing to the church of rome or , indeed , to bayreuth . after all , if state ostentatiously take sides in this conversation , it can not be allowed to avoid debasing the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . in advocating the disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the significance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . it arises from the infinite importance of this grand debate that the state should strive to be revenue-neutral .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . a new multilateral system , founded by the sounder principles , is bound to be conceived . a former , represented by the united states , has fractured , and the latter , represented by china , is on the wane . following the path of least resistance will lead to the international financial system ’s gradual disintegration . while there is a difficulty in achieving international cooperation on regulatory reform on a piecemeal basis , it may become attainable in a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is frequently in the spotlight , usually with popular acclaim . over the years , he championed important victories that limit state handouts to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with the competition case against software giant microsoft ostensibly in the offing , eu commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing fast . within just a few weeks of the eu , the european court of justice ( to which private-sector parties can appeal rule-made decisions ) voided three of monti ’s ruling that refused proposed corporate mergers .
drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample resources , can go away . but time and times and times again , humanitarian aid in africa has risen short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger , niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia , in the 1980s . so many of the world ’s proud and dignified people were stripped of their livelihoods and forced to rely upon one tiny meal a day or nothing at all . worse , these sorts of tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises were coming . then again , as now , food insecurity was predictable long before the first hunger pangs came into being .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relationships that cross borders outside and control of governments , and everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this bottom board , there is also an important degree of closed civilian cooperation , affecting a country both directly and through its attractiveness or soft power . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . here , the us needs the help of europeans , and it makes little sense to call this a world uni-polar , either . no government can control the outcomes without the collaboration of the others .
and , because these large financial institutions are , by any meaningful definition , “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than they otherwise would have been otherwise . translation : an orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failures . this form of government support amounts to a massive implicit subsidy for big banks . worse , they have both the motive and the opportunity to grow further .
and , by raising the costs for extracting the fossil-fuel industry , doing so would contribute to the eventual phase-out of an industry that has no place in a climate-secure world . fortunately , the world will not need to wait for the sort of moral suasion to carry the day . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already confronting intensifying legal pressures . the dutch group urgenda , and almost 900 co-prosecutors have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt stricter climate policies . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint with the home country , the united nations human rights commission , and the calls to investigate large fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility for causing climate change .
several steps are also needed to encourage a massive increase in internet use in these types : * telecommunications liberalization , including the entry of new providers of private services , is critical to reduce costs and spread benefits . for example , a few years ago chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system connecting its three factories and to three subcontractors in asia to its global customer-web network . it opted to out-source that operating to a federal express , one that uses a ingenious on-line system for managing global deliveries and sales . as a result , the us national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers cut out of four weeks into one week , with distribution costs slashing from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales .
when governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand no doubt upward , generating some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is often argued that monetary tizing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach bound to produce excessive inflation . as a result , the option of using so-called “ helicopter money ” is increasingly being discussed . but the discussion about it is riddled with confusions . it is simultaneously arguing ( sometimes by the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people worry a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers proclaimed a bankruptcy ten years ago , it became all but unclear who owed their debts to whom , unable to service their debts , who went further . the implication was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked and firms were going under , not just in the united states but around the world . with policymakers struggling to respond to the greek crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” ” ” ” ” ” of low-business-cycle volatility since the 1880s turned into another great depression . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was starkly unconscionable . and , so far , little has changed in its aftermath .
should the spd , which votes on a grand coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not entirely off of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not go to the culprit . for some , this is the cause of ambivalence . the coalition partners disagree on just how urgent it can be given on this front . should the spd , which votes on a grand coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not go the culprit . but , in the end , they agreed that in a year a commission will provide diverse options and models for protecting germany ’s parliament , while giving assurances to germany ’s ’s european partners that the country is a reliable contributor to troop treadmill .
badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been put off . likewise , the world health organization has confirmed that “ no impact on human health ” worldwide since consuming such foods has been documented . indeed , any new gm crop variety has to do with rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the un scientific community over the past two decades . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who object to technology on “ moral ” grounds .
regulators may well need to turn to bankruptcy laws to fix the problem . perhaps regulators will find that they need to require that the globally regulated have the desired contract provisions . that solution will be incomplete , but , because not all derivatives traders regulate financial institutions are regulated , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . if coverage is not completed , one can expect a regulated to complain that they were put at a competitive disadvantage . indeed , the regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action wo n’t amount much if it is just an application to the derivatives industry to act against its own finances .
sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , albeit far from its last . but even that was inadequate to britain ’s own leaders , who tightened laws further in 1898 , making him even harsher than sedition laws in england . the british had concluded , in the words of a british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ a sedition law adequate to a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and faith may be insufficient , or in some respects unsuited , for a country under foreign rule . ” the consequence has been section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , signs , ” or visible representation … to excite disaffection against a government ” might have been charged with a sedition and a potentially sentenced to life imprisonment . in other words , no human-rights free speech by indians is possible .
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , power , and international-reserve-asset holder , it is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured according to purchasing power parity ) this year . after decades of increasingly active participation in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order . indeed , the country ’s ’s days since deng xiaoping launched the injunction to “ hide brightness ” and cherish obscurity is long gone . after decades of increasingly engaging with international economic institutions – including the g20 , the imf , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order . indeed , the country ’s days of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness ” and cherish obscurity are long gone .
new free-trade agreements are giving european economies access to major markets around the world . these are , by all reasonable standards , an impressive uk-led achievements . achieving a comprehensive global climate agreement promises not only to safeguard the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and , with enlargement having strengthened europe ’s security substantially . progress toward the single market has helped cement competitiveness .
a special message on semiconductors – vital to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of academic and technology scholars ( pcast ) provides some answers . a report written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) proposed that america work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and tighten export controls and inward investment . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment bounds according to china ’s behavior . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in global supply chains for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china and the acquisition of us semiconductor companies by chinese investors . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the us ’ jurisdiction on foreign investment committee ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by domestically produced by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investment – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investment in american start-ups – matches this recommendation .
four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of a opec embargo ; leveraged the potential of the resulting oil gap to spur innovation . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should be hostage to our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . the rocky mountain institute of reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for leapfrogging an american economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 – free of dependence on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should be kept hostage by our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . swift and resolute action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil-fuel reserves , and raise the share of renewable energies in electricity supply could ensure that a substantially hotter and less pleasant world from 2050 that the ipcc warns against will not materialize .
on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from israel ’s gaza strip at dimona reactor . the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; the international inspectors removed all sensitive materials from iraq after the 1991 gulf war ( which was absent when the united states invaded afghanistan in 2003 ) . however , the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear-armed reactors in warzones . luckily , two miss the targets , and israel has managed to intercept the third . but what an international response , if any , would have started if the copd had been highly enriched ?
moreover , the 9/11 surge in oil prices , which raised fears of yet another negative growth shock , has at its disposal . at the same time , not all the indicators are grim . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic advanced economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies . meanwhile , though dollar appreciation has placed some pressure on non-us economies that depend on us exports or foreign capital , it has increased the risk of an open-ended currency war . what is at stake is the american economy reflecting this dichotomy .
in personal-computing enterprise – which moved from bulky apple ii to the sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) – steve jobs were the only true showman of what is now one of the largest industries in the world . he inspired extensive public enthusiasm about the quality of his products and his personal charisma . ( “ other people became “ business ” leaders , but only steve had become somebody known and admiration for the millions , including the romanian waiter at the british firm lounge where i are now a member . ) i first met steel-back in 1979 or 1980 with steve rosen ’s personal computing forum . for some reason , it was held at the playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s annual real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % is impressive for the first quarter of this year , having been the 3 % average growth in 2018 ( measured in the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from 2011 to 2017 , from 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy grew at just 2.1 % per year , on average . with so much at stake , what accounts for the recent acceleration in us growth ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere around the world .
the impact would be greatest ( resulting in roughly 20 % jump in the number of women elected ) in systems that currently have no effective quota legislation . there is a quota 50 % to be adopted within open-list systems . but if these countries were to replace their open-ended lists with closed lists , the number of female students who are elected should , all else remain equal , increased by about 10 % . in closed-to-list systems , female , male , female , female , female ( or vice versa ) should be zippered . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in roughly 20 % drop in the number of female candidates ) in systems that currently have effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically defied america ’s separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . he has also flouted the constitutional prohibition in accepting emoluments , money , or personal benefits by foreign governments that do business , sometimes extravagant stakes at his various hotels and golf clubs , and has found other ways to monetize the presidency . for example , frustrated that the us congress denied him all the funds he wanted by his phantasmagmagorical wall along the mexican border , he simply plucked up funds from funding that congress awarded for the us department of defense . likewise , trump has gone to steer administration contracts to favored firms or away from those that he dislikes – for example , amazonian , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owned the washington post . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to block the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia .
at the same time , argentina defaulted on its debt in 2001 . when its debt becomes unsustainable , there are several potential bargaining outcomes . sometimes , creditors agree to exchange the old bonds for the new one , which have either a lower face value or a lower interest rate . occasionally , debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps crammed out over the longer run , giving the debtor country the time to recapture its ability to service debts . meanwhile , few governments refuse to pay at all in any form .
the response in turkey – where as many as 50 potential cases have emerged in eastern ukraine – is instructive . though ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , a probability of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective . however , a strategy can be made “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china , where a pandemic strain will most likely originate – in expertise , coordination , discipline , and lack of infrastructure .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and , with it , the emergence of a large and growing middle class . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of their beneficiaries have large budget deficits that decline national saving below domestic investment ) . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it in dollar terms , but also in other major currencies , owing to its large trade surplus in recent decades . that has made china a crucial trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , in addition to putting it on the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . it remains the vital assembly center for the global supply chains of many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , that enable a lower price on global consumers .
history offers little guidance about whether the warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites within them . with the exception of the 1990 's of the balkan conflicts , war there was neither fought nor within countries with nuclear reactors . in balkan wars , serbian military jets blasted slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plants in a menacing gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to release radioactive contents . for ukraine 's government , the angst is real . even ukrainians born after 1986 have understood what the chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat might look like .
china assumed full advantage over the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom rates for russia ’s energy resources . in the last two years or so , saudi arabia has made it starkly apparent that it would not readily surrender its market share – anyone to anyone . it has pursued a campaign to recover its old position not only in crude , but also in us petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to that end , it has maintained a price war , backed by a manufacturing boost aimed at pressuring its weaker competitors . once it opened its doors to asia , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter downstream markets in india and indonesia , two countries that are critical of the saudis ’ own strategy .
participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots society to the most multilingual . this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will develop . indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourish all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . history suggests that it would be one of postcommunist people ( alert to opportunities , and exercising their initiative to try out fresh things ) and innovative people ( imagined new things , developing new concepts in commercial products and methods , and commercializing them to potential ones ) . in fact , what sort of economy would offer this good life ?
as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two domains notoriously immune to productivity increases , education and health care , technology is already reducing demand for a skilled workforce . ( though perhaps this is not automation proper , the supermarket just shifted some of the work of grocery onto its customer service . ) for those that are uncompensated by the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for the improved job . but at the same time , technological advances are eating the better jobs they need , too . a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and unducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change .
in february , the roma father and their five-year-old son was killed outside their homes near budapest . in april , killers gunned down a roma plant worker as she was walking to the job . in february , the roma father and its five-year-old son was killed outside their homes near budapest . last november , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary , with no success whatsoever . in august , shooters invaded the home from an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her death or her 13-year-old daughter .
with american workers already competing against robots at home and against low-wage us workers abroad , disrupting imports will just create more jobs for robots . a more rational approach would embrace the twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution has transformed the world into ways that tariffs can not reverse . with american workers already competing against robots at home and against low-wage us workers abroad , disrupting imports will only create more jobs for robots . trump should protect individual workers rather than individual jobs .
but hitler ’s strength over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s degree of power over iran . he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is his own latter-day hitler , and is iran ’s equivalent today to germany ’s in the 1930 ’s ? as a result , iran ’s recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters alike . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany , and they were certainly not even more so . indeed , hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran was very well might .
but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas rather than a unified , unified approach . the second principle is subsidiarity , holding that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are seen alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . this means that just so long as european electorates insist on deepening sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , a shared liability is likely to be a pipe dream . the final principle is congruity , ensuring that decision-makers hold accountable how they function .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflects a political coalition of two major powers : the world ’s super-wealthy and evangelical christians . the bush team believed that they would ultimately balance tax cuts for the rich with reductions in government spending , but never explain this to the us public . the bush team believed that they would , in effect , balance the tax cuts for the rich with reductions in government spending ; but they never explained that to the general public . evangelicals were applied as the basis of so-called “ family values , ” ” implying opposition to abortion and gay marriage , as well as promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that they supply locally and internationally . as those policies fail , global financial markets behave negatively , add to uncertainties in the global economy , and there is little ease in sight because america enters an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate .
public investment in infrastructure ( such as the massive expansion in european railroad networks ) , along with climate preservation and environmental technology , will be needed . to bolster purchasing power and stimulate consumption , long-dominant tax cuts at low – and medium-income households are vital . public infrastructure investment ( such as the massive expansion of european railroad networks ) , along with climate preservation and environmental technology , will also be needed . japan in the early 1990s waits too long to act , missing the proper chance to erect countermeasures , which is one reason why japan has still not recovered from its long period of economic stagnation . of course , the eu ’s member states should determine the cement form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves .
furthermore , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 trillion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and is well positioned to play a key role in renewable energy . for europe , africa ’s ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . spending by households and companies , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual growth . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe .
an apparent potential threat to putin ’s hold on power , ivanov was passed over ; and it has since been relegated to the role of russia as a chief botanist , overseeing the environment and transportation . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb man . but ivanov is much taller than putin , who , at any rate , has achieved only the standing of his lieutenant colonel . earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated , or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashion , with medvedev assuming the role of a pliant prime minister . despite his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his own fancy ties and his expensive watches than for his executive conduct .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are in trouble in any country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising ratio of pensioners to taxpayers . the problem will be uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” scheme to finance social security creates a crisis when the fund is exhausted . the us problem will worsen during the years ahead as the adverse demographic trend increases the fiscal burden of funding pensions and health care . although the options in that time will be different from those in the us from the choices facing other governments , policies to escape america ’s crisis are relevant for other countries confronting populations of population aging . here is how the american system works : through legislation , a payroll tax is dedicated solely to fund a retiree benefit .
lula remains deeply popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows real compassion with the less affluent , and with foreign investors alike because he always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic realities . most recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failures in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the commonsense needed from someone who governs . ” indeed , while the scandals rocked the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected in late may last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that the politicization of corruption scandals has provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting scandals , helping to demonize brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to resist open criticism .
the constitutional court that allowed morales to run in view of the legal presidential succession ; timely elections were promising ; and the military had not taken power . at the same time , the two organizations of the american states electoral observation missions that he himself had invited , and whose terms he accepted then refused to certify the outcome . true , morales resigned as the military told him and after agreeing to protesters in exchange for the demands of a new vote . but , then , the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed up by the constitution . the bolivian military had arrested none .
it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and they resent – to the point of mobilizing on the streets – any hint that a “ clique ” at the top lends its way . this is the sort of free , democratic spirit operating outside the convention that elections will determine a government . it is not always either consistent or rational ; it is also a good deal . and it moves very quickly in precipitating crises .
countries were obliged to make limited commitments to trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism , as long as they obeyed some simple international rules . the current crisis shows how far we have come out on this model . in particular , financial globalization has been playing havoc on the old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few safety valves in place , it gave rise to an explosive mix .
you and i might depend on one another , but when i depend less than you do on me , my bargaining power is heightened . for decades , the us and saudi arabia had a balance of asymmetries in which we have depended on them as a swing producer of oil , much of which depended on the us for ultimate military security . so , even if america had no other interests in middle eastern countries , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a greater balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to be free america ’s military expenditures – which some specialists estimate run towards $ 50 billion a year – to protect the region ’s oil routes . at the same time , america ’s ’s bargaining positions in world politics need to be strengthened . power arises from asymmetries within a interdependent relationship .
at the national level , lack of political will led to the craven use of referenda , such as the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe in 2005 , the netherlands ’ ’ vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in every case , eu voters have stated that “ no ” ” outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , the national leaders seem to ’ habit of blaming the eu for its domestic problems . indeed , europe ’s leaders ’ parochialism present a big reason for the eu ’s failure to retain broad-based public support . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about profound divisions among the eu ’s member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians and poles want exactly the same thing as germans and french . ” lack of historical vision among the current generation of polish political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to make eu citizens feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . politically , that model was based on building consensus and economically on keynesian demand management . today , the equivalent of collapse was of the “ regulation-lite ” regime in which the party that styled itself as the “ new labour ” ( new labour ) embrace a powerful role for markets , particularly for predominantly deregulated financial markets . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered an illusion that benefited everyone , with high levels of employment and major wage growth .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . palestine ’s religious landmarks have attracted increasing numbers of religiosity tourists from around the world every year .
as french cities have been burned , other countries have been very severe in judging france . other countries , it seems , have been trying to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion that they know is likely to spread . they know that their cities , too , are also vulnerable to urban violence , to the extent that they have pockets of community inequality , including the marginalized and the left of young people . embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens who live in france ; tv news programs have shown fewer hours of burning cars . nonetheless , mayors across europe have reacted more moderately , feeling , and displaying solidarity with the plight of their french peers .
all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of dollars that it consumes to generate one unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will grow this year than it did in the past year . to be sure , use intensity has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear power ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal have climbed , or as high as $ 1 trillion , as is the case for copper and crude oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift huge numbers of people out of poverty has served to prevent a crisis of legitimacy – place a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral prices . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a higher rate than global supply , prices will continue to rise . meanwhile , the supply of majority commodities is forecast to grow at no annual rate of more than 2 % in real terms .
earlier this year , he had been diagnosed with cervical cancer and forced to launch a social-media campaign aimed at locate the drug that his treatment required . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of a government facing a $ 3.5 billion bill on pharmaceutical imports . in the automobile industry , defaults exceed $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation services due to a lack of spare parts . payment arrears on food imports plunged to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a substantial shortage of staple goods . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy .
likewise , while egypt is at the center of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to recapture a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) , and in the region as a whole . after all , turkey already represents a functioning democracy , one that was at least ten years old . the “ middle eastern empire ” ” will no longer remain a sleight of hand . will it have to get its bomb out , too ? of course , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it .
the desire to limit or protect some forms of human activity from free market can be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where free markets are still an unknown beast . state-owned health insurers , a state that guarantees retirement , etc. , are not just insolvent and inefficient ; they also clash with the idea of political reform . these state-controlled benefits have little recourse to justice supposedly craving their socialist promoters , but everything to rent-seeking behavior and corruption . if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the notion that the constitution represents an image of aspirations rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . but , in a situation in which many fields of social life -- such as education , health , and welfare services -- needs quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its work provides the single plausible avenue for change .
an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago put it to me that the only publicly appeared portraits by then-president hafez al-assad was of banco bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend told me of his own illiterate mother taking a bus into dakar each month to watch a bollywood movie , unable to comprehend hindi dialogue and can not read the french subtitles , but still catch the movie spirit and comprehend the story , and people like her see at india with stars in their eyes as an outcome . the indian art , its classical music , and france have the same kind of effect . the movies of bjl , which brings its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer yet another example . so does the work of indian fashion designers today striding across the world .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth president , visits india since it gained independence , comes at an early stage , with both the united states and india . indeed , some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening up an awkward national security gap and the economy – targeting his cabinet meetings with india ’s government . while bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between america and china , they are a thorny and absence of resolution makes them more intractable . for india , the issues on the obama agenda are curious and complex , and the resolution ’s dispute options are exceedingly limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been .
according to the un high commission on refugees , more than 65 million refugees worldwide died in the last year alone , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . a combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability elsewhere . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have winner-take-all networks , where hubs capture access to knowledge and power , leave under-privileged groups , classrooms , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . this may be inviting geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorated into a lose-lose scenario , like that which is already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing . as a result of social media , the resulting discontent is now spreading faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics .
but such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible , indivisible . that constitution marked poland ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy and provides a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ “ based on the indissoluble unity of spain ” ” ” ” with sovereignty belonging “ to the spanish people . many cited former british prime minister david cameron on the decision to permit scotland to hold independence a referendum in 2014 .
the flawed premise that the post-crisis challenges facing the world have been merely temporary has underpinned policies that have yielded little more than lackluster recoveries , while failing to address key problems like high unemployment and rising inequality . it is time to adopt a new framework for realistic solutions that foster shared prosperity within today ’s globalized economy of today and tomorrow ’s globalized economies . the geneva – the world needs – must stop looking backwards . the flawed premise that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were merely temporary has underpinned policies that have yielded little more than lackluster recoveries while failing to address key problems like high unemployment and rising inequality .
obama confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . these were highlighted in an “ open letter ” to obama ” ” ” that i organized and released , over a signatures of almost 50 of today ’s most influential trade scholars worldwide , urging a presidential shift toward doha . indeed , it is notable that while obama , on june 2010 , at least mentioned doha , his “ one big deal ” address in june 2011 did not . america ’s president is captive to rural , working-class labor unions , who buy the phony narrative that trade with poor countries increases ranks with the us for the benefit of driving down wages . obama has confined trump to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries .
but this is by no means an easy task , particularly in the short run . should that happen , the chance at a truly u.s. default would be far greater than it is today . indeed , some people are even predicting a double-dip recession . these new worries raise alarm bells in china . these new worries raise alarm bells in china .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits to bear , in addition to market rates of return . some 1,260 companies , managed by $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are signatories of the un ’s first principles for responsible investment , ” ” ” ” ” ” which recognize environmental , social , and governance factors – and thus the long-term health and economic stability of companies and markets – as critical to investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone one step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions – a bold move that could transform capital markets . last year , one out of every six dollars of corporate assets under professional management in the united states , a total of $ 6.6 trillion , was committed to some form of sustainable investment , especially by public equities . if this trend continues , with environmental or societal objectives fostering investment ’s value , this will reinforce a commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among firms worldwide .
the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing its own unique worldviews to global affairs . in a sense , this might , too , seem like a good thing . more multifaceted perspectives could enrich the multilateral process and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but this multipolar dynamic is also fueling instability . in international politics , perceptions matter , – sometimes much more than reality .
in britain and some european countries , animal-welfare has become politically salient , and pressure on all parliamentary representatives mounted . meanwhile , the european union established a scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farm , with the committee recommended banning the battery cage , alongside some other forms of close confinement of cliques and calves . to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation , and developed new , less brutal methods of keeping hens in check . a ban on battery cages in the eu was ultimately adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that producers had enough time to phase out the facilities with which they invested , its implementation lagged until on january 1 , 2012 . some supermarket chains had even ceased to carry eggs from battery hens .
finally , equal accounts might serve as public-policy vehicles . more broadly , instead of assisting people solely when societal risks materialize , public policy could encourage individuals throughout their working lives by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits one another ’s needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . this might sound utopian ; in a sense , it is a . early school-leavers , for example , could be well endowed with points for a later exercise in professional training . but at a time when every digital service is becoming more and more “ personalized , ” why should social policy remain confined to the twentieth century ’s philosophy and resolution ?
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s own tenure . numerous government ministers , bank officer , and ngo ’s grew at his blunt criticism , just as his effusive praise . it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was regarded as taboo . but corruption creates the one big barrier to growth and development in many countries , particularly as it diverts resources away from the poor . the world bank has insisted that corruption be viewed as cancer and that fight it is made synonymous with fighting poverty .
it is a revisionist power vis-à-vis the global financial architecture that seeks an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power , with respect to the un system and steadfastly opposes enlargement of the un security council towards lasting membership . china is nowhere on the same page than that of the other brics countries when it comes to addressing global institutional reform . for example , the g20 ’s formation was improvisation to defer genuine financial-reform . indeed , the modest arrangements being implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been limited to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations , peace and security remaining the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries .
the evidence supports the view that systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , or religion ) is especially harmful in this respect . rising inequality of outcomes may not lead to reduced intergenerational mobility . whether that will depend heavily on whether the important instruments underpinning opportunity ’ equality , principally education and health care are universally accessible . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices .
the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into large pools of finance – not to mention links and expertise – from small investors . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , a few specifically destination clean-tech companies . last may , eureeca.com has taken crowdfunding approaches further than ever before , creating the first truly global crowd-investing marketplace that offers equity in funded companies . other increasingly prominent trends , – such as collaborative aimed at reining in dishing , leveraging , and sharing and leasing models – could offer a similarly powerful impetus to such efforts . if used wisely , such platforms could pick up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to ease the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy .
in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared its independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across borders in neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that had inevitably spurred cholera outbreak . the standard of care at that time was the poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely . bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well , and the world can not grow . as many people lay dilip mahalanabis took the opportunity in dire circumstances .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 – international earth day , marks one year since signing the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november and now possesses 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most important way forward to date in the effort to meet climate change . the paris agreement ’s primary objective is to prevent average world temperatures from rising over 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . but its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , the hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º above the whole twentieth-century average .
even more succinctly , could not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole and for its own future turn out to be the logical culmination of a modern conception of the world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws formulated for god-knows – of what purpose , being the notion that does not question or seeking the deeper meaning of existence and renounces and all of the metaphysics ? the atheistic nature of today ’s civilizations ( ours are the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history and also the incipient civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual self-interest and individual responsibility stemming from the crisis of global responsibility . but how to re-create in humans a sense of sharing attitude toward what lies above us if humans across the globe have another image of doing above , if people everywhere feel empowered by the need to stress their “ otherness ” ? is there any more sense in trying to turn man ’s mind to the heavens , when such swerving turns would merely aggravate conflicts on earth among followers of us entanglements ? could humanity think only within the boundaries of what gives rise to its own field of vision , and is incapable of remembering that lies beyond itself , rather than as a consequence of the loss of the metaphysical certitude , of the loss of
at the heart of such a transformation is an energy transition that , while underway , lags or has stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and the major end-users is critical , because expands affordable and reliable clean-energy services to everyone who need them most . those are the decisions that will drivethe world need to be managed . those are the decisions that will drivethe world need . pulling down the ranks of the gauntlet to the world of major economies : tell us when you will phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from revenue to pollution .
new haven – central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial crisis coming well ahead of its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in singapore in july 2007 that of just 47 central banks found themselves publishing financial stability messages ( fsrs ) of 15 academic finance economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . and yet , while these central banks failed before the crisis , they should still play a leading role in preventing another crisis from coming . macro-prudential regulators ( a government that is focusing not on the soundness of individual national financial authorities , but rather on the soundness of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , with central bankers being the logical people to fill this role . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam equity group [ i.e. , ] 47 central banks found themselves publishing financial stability messages ( fsrs ) of 15 academic finance economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system .
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , saying that they confront a “ very , very hard ” choice . sadly , in making that choice , the us president chose to turn away from the classic american vision engraved to the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york , expressed in emma lazarus ’s ’s poem “ giving me your tired , your pitiful masses yearning to breathe free . ” and , even after the repeal was announced , he proclaimed that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with our heart and compassion . ” that credo has benefited tens of millions of arrivals , and has unmeasurably strengthened america . still , apparently convinced that the daca beneficiaries have taken away jobs from their citizens , he has concluded that the same hearts and compassion have been needed “ for unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ”
tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need proper resources to win their tough battles . amlo ’s decision to lower the salaries of government employees has already led many high-level leaders to seek jobs elsewhere . trying to get around these precious tasks , while paying below-market salaries , is penny foolish . they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated in efficient ways , maximizing government revenue . those in power who qualify for early retirement embrace it , rather than waiting for amlo to slash prices .
and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.15 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels , far more than the two degrees that climate scientists identify as a threshold beyond which to launch the most catastrophic consequences of climate change . furthermore , global co2 emissions reached a record-high level in 2012 . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , we need creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups should be establishing themselves in three key areas . a first coalition , comprising a motley group of committed governments , would seek to drive the global cost of renewables at least on that of fossil-fuel-based energy in the next decade . clearly , it is in the need of a third industrial revolution that is helping to change .
at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , almost one billion people in over 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by turning their lights into an hour . sao paulo , as well-intentioned gestures go , makes it difficult to beat earth hour . first organized in sydney , australia , the dutch chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and its levels of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates have exploded in recent years – to a point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has not touched . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landlines , from the opera house in sydney to the grand pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city ; new york city rose , rio de janeiro , big ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and las vegas . sao paulo , as well-intentioned gestures go , makes it difficult to beat earth hour .
but britain has joined the european community , not only the free-trade area that cameron now wants . even the supremacy of european law in defined domains was accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after germany did so in that way . nevertheless , an undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished , and was apparent even in cameron ’s speech . in essence , the british view has been that a loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is as much europeans as the uk would have needed . indeed , in his manifesto , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice .
estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of the air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries , representing about 82 % of the world ’s population . research for the global commission on the global economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused $ 1.23 million in premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economies – in 2010 . to be sure , the coal-sector has helped billions of people escape from poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned almost 700 % per capita income growth since 1990 . but human health runs at larger risks in the countries that burn more co2 . coal-fired power is also the primary source of carbon-dioxide carbon dioxide , the major greenhouse gases we have led to about 150,000 premature deaths annually , and threaten pervasive risks this century and beyond .
but , at times , this desire appears overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . in politics , it can be dangerous because it encourages basing decisions , regardless of how weighty , on whatever popular views momentarily prevails . big democracy nowadays has been conflated with a pop culture of rapidly passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow and always gets more waiting in the wings . the call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . for the greatest part of the snapshots , referenda are for the most part snapshots .
unless i know that a person ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s name is enough , i might not even have known what a company does ’s about . perhaps she would say “ the message for president barack obama ” if she were sharing an open letter , but she would otherwise be able to do so otherwise … . unfortunately , i get many of the messages headlined , updating . or , an investment proposal of your consideration , ” ” or , “ serve as a benchmark ? ” the single topic says what the message is all about and signal an desired response : an invitation to speak in paris on july 14 .
but it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national people ’s congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . economists around the world have taken note of the advent of raghuram rajan as the chief economist at the finance ministry of finance . at the same time , rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer on the political economy , and a former chief economist for the imf . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . and yet the change currently afoot might just make things around .
the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections by itself can not ensure an open society ; there is also a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth . we must abandon popper the tacit assumption that the goal of political discourse aims to create a better understanding of reality , and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . indeed , the two powers will be respected by politicians , rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about truth and punishes politicians as it seizes them in deliber­ate . these can not be identi­cal toward a science-based method , but they should present themselves in character enshrining the pursuit of truth as criteria upon which to be judged by political views . we need to establish new ground rules of the game of political discourse .
the explanations range from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians lack the genes , construction , stamina , climate , whatever . there is a structural and infrastructural explanation : the lack of trained facilities , gymnasiums , runs tracks , facilities , facilities . yet those rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in medals . let us be the developing country , i say , ; after all , it boils down not only to france , its legs against its own , but to what you can put against its trainer , its running shoe , its ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . why do the indian athletes perform so badly ?
soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive proof . as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative american project ( bush 's ) sent a letter to us then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , after winning his us presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq to be one of his top two security priorities . not coincidentally , bush 's administration included ten of the bush administration 's 25 founding statements on principles , including dick cheney as us vice president and donald rumsfeld as defense secretary . in september 2002 rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ we do n’t know with any precision how much we do not know ” about the “ status of wmd program " in iraq .
r evolutions yield a new political class , and iran ’s ’s ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the most significant difference from 2009 to 1979 was rooted in the revolution itself . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of the narrow ruling stratum , and a much broader supporting group , which was dogged by administrations and political mobilization . in the twentieth century , the composition of that political class changed drastically in the twentieth century . the clerical elite gradually lost power to military-security groups from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of this points . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
research shows that many girls worldwide – and especially those in the global south – simply do not prepare for menarche ; education can help . when programs are developed alongside rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . finally , we need fact-based solutions . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss school , owing to their failure to access clean sanitary products .
under these conditions , it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds from greek banks . if greece ’s public agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek eurobonds as collateral . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , it is vulnerable to self-fulfilling self-confidence crises . that a lender can be monetary or fiscal , and , in greece , both types are in dispute .
in the short run , however , the declining countries often take on more risk , and are thus more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . russia , almost totally dependent on the revenues derived from its energy source , is a “ one crop economy ” ” ” ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring and middle eastern ukraine , as well as its cyber-attacks on america and others , though intended to make russia look great again , merely make the country ’s long-term prospects worse . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing call to the post-1945 liberal order for a us president to seize territory from his neighbor to france . this has created a political dilemma , one that has followed .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . greece needs both its money and its reforms , fast and within the eurozone and the eu . the continuing poker game between greece ’s government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all the parties involved – and europe most of them . ultimately , it can end only with greece ’s renewed bailout , or with a european plunge into catastrophe . the governments in athens , brussels , and not even berlin can coexist with greece as a failed state and economics .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries , brazil , russia , india , and south africa are preparing to fill the global vacuum just as all of them do . trump ’s presidency gives china new opportunities to cement its role as an investment provider and every means of its infrastructure and aid to benefit host countries that are eager to develop . his unilateralist approach is likely to nudge the us into playing catch-up with a china left nearly unfettered in its ongoing struggle to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vital , economically , and politically vital , interests . indeed , china ’s rise has provided new orbit for many countries around the world , particularly the developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , china , with exceptional diplomatic channels across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) , has made it an alternative hegemonic power , one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights .
urbanization inures the people to the rural suffering , and as townspeople like together their compassion capacity toward others atrophies . urbanites become the kind of people prepared to sacrifice one another for another in order to please his appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is a metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who regarded cities as the grastery of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced by the malign effects of urbanization that he “ “ will rather see men grazing ” on meadow grass than devouring one another in cities . austin , living in the town , turns you in a cannibal .
looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , annualized growth rates of 8 % ( compared to previous ten % a decade ago ) and gradual consumption growth to 50 % of gdp will translate into chinese consumer spending of an additional $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . if not , could any other country fill that role , even partial ? in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in dollar terms . the question at the beginning of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless that scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance points to across-the-board , the indefinite end of chinese consumer consumption , will serve as the world ’s sole engine for continued growth for the next decade ?
yet , unlike many emerging economies , china does not struggle with currency mismatches , owing to its huge foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender of the outside world . at least four debt/gdp “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many other emerging economies ) suffers a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and long-term borrowing . nor can policymakers afford to ignore a fourth misreading – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors , who channeled resources toward speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . but china did not avoid the third mismatch , between debt and capital : its credit-fueled ratio has doubled over the last decade , from around 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in march 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets .
the events of the last 15 months , beginning with deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by local violence in north africa and japan in the tragedy in june , confront the world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of conventional energy sources and promises and advances in clean energy . europe has been the engine of energy modernization in recent decades . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to promote that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of its most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . with the goal of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity up to 2020 , india ’s investment in india could grow rapidly . in the years ahead , such leadership will be vital to help capture the economic , ecological , and safety benefits of renewable energies .
for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual-property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . in october 1982 , a french government demanded that all of japan go to ukraine via poitiers , a town hundreds of miles from the nearby significant shipping port city . this non-tariff barrier to trade has remained in effect until april 1983 . human ingenuity also seems to know little bounds when finds protectionist barriers . even absent tariffs and quotas , trade can be impeded by subsidies , taxation , anti-dumping laws , limits on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . washington , dc , to defeat populism requires coming to grips with a key reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result in a government losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may in fact strengthen their chance to get reelected by getting wilder and doing more impossible promises – and by doing more economic damage .
two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : the strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand ; and the shift to funding of government debts via private institutions at market prices , under the pretext of fighting inflation . the financial sector had since made every effort to design the instruments needed to prop up price volatility , turn private-sector debt into tradable fiscal securities , and gain access to speculative markets . as a result , by the end of 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . but these efforts were in favor of fraud and delinquency , thereby spurring a wave of new financial crises – europe in 1992 , brazil in 1997 , and russia in 1998 – as well as a recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . these trends lifted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by privately financed activities that were unconnected for transactions in the real economy .
there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land acquisition , structure treaties to encourage innovation and savings , and improve collaboration with contractors . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed approval time by 11 % in just one year . and chile , a national-level public investment system evaluates all proposed public projects using standard form , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional savings opportunities – hitting $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-review program that identifies 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then formed a cabinet subcommittee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by more than 15 % .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and workers there ) ; biology , space flight , and a lot more ; and encompassing representations , like graphs , timelines , and the tables , of how interconnected they are . other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and staff ) ; biology , space flight , and much more ; and inclusion of representations , like graphs , timelines , and the tables , of how they connect them . time and again , you get ; you get ; soon , we get ; your solutions to it . most things do not exist in isolation ; if we get fair . and this means better , more meaningful responses as we search .
at the same time , the european union is currently considering laws to compel corporate boards to retain a certain proportion of women , up to 60 % . last year , european commission vice president vivien reding has issued a call to voluntary action . reding has invited corporations to sign on the gender balance goals of 40 % of female board seats in the eu . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own standard-ready list of female employees . this proposed mandate has come from frustration .
cambridge – at the start of the classroom every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it really better to be poor in a rich country , or wealthy , in a poor country ? and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . the question , then , has been a quick , inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured , limited version of that question , for whom there is a definitive answer .
in view of the dire returns to us saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates may force her to put up even more money aside . alternatively , low interest rates might put her ( or her pension fund ) to buy risky long maturity bonds . given that those bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might , therefore , set her up for a collapse when us interest rates eventually rise . in fact , america may well be in the process of adding a retirement crisis to the problem of unemployment . it already has saved , because it wanted enough money to retire .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with either the intervention in libya or the shia drama of the arab spring . and yet what has occurred in zambia is related to these developments , and thus relevant everywhere . after all , the smooth transitions of power clearly need not be taken for granted . indeed , he has defeated an incumbent who genuinely wants to hold the job , and who may reasonably have been tempted to follow the lead of other african heads of government defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result . what made zambia so important has been that the challenger had won .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole client state in the middle east . its use of the hard power won its civil war over president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how a strategic package of unrestrained military power – witness the utter destruction of aleppo , can be a game-changer . meanwhile , policies of neutrality have enabled russia to maintain dialogue with the different parties , it will do virtually nothing to forge a new regional order . but , for now , russia has been mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , iran , the kurds , and israel , as well as iran . russia ’s regional diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria .
with the external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed into once again . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted for just over as long as the international environment remained benign . but , once the inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf was forced to back down once again , closing the external-financing gap with an astonishing $ 50 billion in loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . eventually , however , the external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian refugee shortfall soon began brigading into the reforms that the imf demanded .
proponents of helicopter money , straight crediting citizens with central bank funds or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who spend it . indeed , a boost to demand might give central banks the kind of opening they need in order to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . that could take the air out of incipient assets bubbles , which might be shaped and ease pressures on institutional investors , struggling to find the yield that they need to meet their spending insurance and pension liabilities . moreover , the alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured way , headed off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
this followed two visits that he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and the as a donor to the conference he sponsored in april , which sought to raise $ 300 million on aid and investment in the us . more recently , ban took a proactive role in the gaza crisis . he regularly defended palestinians ’ rights to a state , but also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks against southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly pressed hamas to force suspension of warfare and demanded that israel open gaza its borders to relief aid . it also visited a un compound at the center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concerns over its bombing .
boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . furthermore , advanced-country monetary policies are extending beyond financial shocks . according to the international monetary fund for april 2011 ’s world economic outlook , while capital flows have increased globally , they are higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . furthermore , advanced economies ’ spillover effects on external imbalances extend far beyond financial shocks .
first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of its military might and unlikely to divide its leadership make any wide-ranging violence untenable , particularly given that the egyptian state ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s has deeply weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets in the country . second , the powerful forces of political islam today may be preoccupied with passions , wrath and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite egypt ’s significant demographic and economic transitions over the last four decades , the egyptian society has still retains its agrarian spaces , which favors conciliation and compromise . in a country with over 45 million people under the age of 35 , no single political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will need to answer a vexing question that they failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ?
a factor that contributed to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed conflicts between east and west away from one that emphasized economic systems in place . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s led to another advance for rights . but the past decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in the ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda during the current decade , and seemed to turn against the source of rights . a factor that contributed to their demise was the shift in thinking that transformed conflicts between east and west from one which emphasized economic systems in the eu . powerful states like china and russia are not restricting themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but are rallying to those in other heavily engaged practices .
as technological innovations further reduce entry barriers for both producers and consumers , proliferation of such linkages will become even easier , differentiating what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of trans-boundary relations and dependencies . for both individual participants ’ longer-term health and general systems , these relationships must function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is viewed as credible . if not , they run the risk implied by smaller levels of growth and welfare . this makes the current confrontation between the us and china have heightened fears of severe damage , particularly given the resurgence of ever-greater protectionism and the broader “ trade war . ” now , supply chains can hold as many major international linkages as they are indigenous , with products partly or wholly manufactured abroad .
once it is out in cool , it will have to decide with which the economic bloc is bound to align , and then accept , that bloc ’s rules . this is neither to the facts of sovereignty nor to the satrapy of states , nor to do so on its own . if britain wants to do business with others , it will have to agree on shared rules . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . simply put , the issue is whether the us would prefer to china ’s approach on intellectual-property and technology transfers over western those , or european food and agricultural standards over those of america .
in the us , which has the most progressive income taxation among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and stiffen the base are being discussed . in europe , structural reforms focus on both higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . the gamble has been that a robust , well defined recovery would have enabled banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets well enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts . but sluggish growth implies fewer fiscal revenue and more transfer requirements to cushion hardship , putting pressure on government budgets . out-deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of a sluggish us economic recovery .
kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( which undeniably agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about excluding west germany ’s communists from the debate . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , questioning whether he would have backed an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . nonetheless , thadden himself avoided offering a directly response , implying that it wo n’t fight alongside his sister . nevertheless , dahrendorf remained adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters , rather than by the courts declaring that he had been illegal by the communist party . bucerius later challenged thadden , questioning whether he would have backed an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 .
though financing for public infrastructure returned to 2008 levels , little is funneled into investment in new projects . liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that involves an uncompetitive regulatory regime . most funds have targeted legacy infrastructure – investments that are seen as relatively secure , because they bear little or no construction risk and demonstrate their potential to generate stable cash revenues . to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating an asset class that we call buy-and-hold equity ( bhe ) . this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years or more .
he tricked the international monetary fund into expanding its $ 3.4 trillion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 – just to burn away that bridge with a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse electoral outcomes and the biggest protests his regime had ever seen . but , following a recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock appears to be running out on its beleaguered misrule . washington , dc , belarusian president alexander lukashenko , is both a master of political survival . lukashenko was bent on removing russia ’s oil-price subsidies in 2009 to beg , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus out of collapse . now russia has stepped on a harder line , demanding a high price for borrowing that is insufficient to save the regime .
in its current struggle with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain age-old thought control . brilliant advances in china ’s economy over the last 30 years include something that all chinese celebrate . but liu ’s jailing also illustrates in starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights flows to the rest of the world alongside mass-chinese goods . indeed , it has become increasingly obvious that china has opened its economy only to retaining the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , rather than to respect and enhance ordinary chinese ’s lives . but , happily for anyone with a persistence and a modicum of computer prowess , internet leaks like sieve .
at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s deputy premier on economic policy , hinted that upcoming reforms would be carried out with startling speed . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he noted that “ strengthening the party of overall leadership is the core issue . ” liu , a master tactician , appears to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reform . what these views do not seem to be coming out of thin air , but this is their points . given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now borne out .
a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . a broad socioeconomic disparity exists between european majorities and roma , or in “ gypsies ” , many of whom live in extreme poverty . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent merits urgent attention among government leaders as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority . left unroma unchanged , this persistent poverty threatens to become a permanent drag on europe ’s prosperity , one that would be a tragedy for the roma and the non-roma alike .
to help find a solution , we have run a pest ( political , economic , cultural , and technological ) analysis in hong kong ’s current situation and its future prospects . on the political front , the big lesson is that it is up to governments to ensure order and security . but where its actions are inadequate , it is precisely the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . it need not have to be this way , either . within the eu , two systems frame , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address on matters of internal security .
and that might mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of euro disintegration . and that might mark the beginning of a slow-moving process of euro disintegration . pro-european forces need a campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical us slowdown and , most importantly , on a cohesive , aggressive eu policy to cope with europe on long-term structural issues . above all , it needs an agenda of ideas on research and development , educational quality and social inclusion , which could appeal to large segments of the population across the eu ’s member countries . europe ’s parliamentary elections are about less than four months away .
when asked whether america was poised to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they have been reticent . elected officials everywhere need to adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . their reaction has been understandable : even entertaining the possibility that america will become “ number two ” amounts to a career suicidal for an american politician . by contrast , intellectuals have a special obligation not to think the unthinkable and to speak the unspeakable in the long run . they are supposedly thinking of every possibility , even disagreeable , and they are prepared to prepare populations for prospective developments .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has been dubbed the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme at the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , – and rightly so . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important for the economy as a whole ’s success , and mexico is no exception . in the coming years , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume .
a 12.5 % tax is being levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risking equity to launch new businesses will have to pay about 50 % of their startup costs in tax payments . likewise , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to roughly 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average for 4 % – and the us government plans to slash it further . in fact , italy ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . for example , payroll-tax cuts – which would allow small-scale , business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents . and landlords pay a 15 % rents tax , while unskilled workers pay an income-tax rate of 23 % on their meager incomes .
and , though thousands , perhaps tens of thousands , of protestors , have gathered well ahead of the polish supreme court in recent weeks , some 8 million people voted for pis in the 2015 election . kaczyński knows full well that his own party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely be unable to operate in time . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that “ the european commission will not break poland up the reforms … unless we reform our judiciary ; additional reforms will have little sense because , sooner or later , they would negated , withdraw from the courts that we have today . ” current polls consistently show that pis ’s fidesz has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , citigroup ’s platform . this suggests that , while poles might not agree with pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for free courts – or for liberal-democratic principles generally .
tim thinking that … hank assumed a very different view , ” ” and the way forward , as if the terms of three musketeers interviewed an oral historian . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents that they had operated with , george w. bush and barack obama , and bersani reprise of their frustration with people who regarded little to see the world go wrong , halting an solutions such as sheila brazil ’s federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky members of congress . the main interest lies not so much in narrative chapters that cover the same earth as their former books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they were able to forge a consensus on quite radical agenda . three proposals , in particular , should make policymakers in the united states and elsewhere think hard .
likewise , some 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is arrogant , and just 50 % still believe that america and the united kingdom have special relations now that he is in office . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the united kingdom has been postponed indefinitely . in germany , just 6 % of respondents feel that he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as an arrogant case . at the same time , the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both led by populist right-wing governments . as a result , sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe .
shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton asserted that , “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own and the world can not solve them without america . ” in the sixteenth-century us control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain a edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france acquired from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british powers rested on its industrial primacy and its naval forces . us president barack obama ’s 2009 inaugural address that “ us power grows through its prudent exploitation ; our security dodging away the justness of our cause , the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and restraint . ” conventional wisdom has always held up that the us state with the greatest military prevails , but in an information age it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story that wins . today , it is far from clear how the us is measured in its capacity to develop successful strategies of survival .
the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes to holding the line against irresponsible policies – become unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency , the problems with which china today is wrestling . the public consensus supporting difficult reform in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters ’ ability to understand and accept the tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble has sparked controversy when pretending , to draw inspiration from this experience , he said , “ france will be glad if someone can force parliament to reform itself . ” the challenge for democracies lies in the development of mechanisms that allow them to set policies that are environmentally sustainable in the long run , while safeguarding the democratic process itself .
he turned to the university of nebraska , where he had gotten his undergraduate degree by acquiring the family farm from the banks that had already been repossessed of one-third of his land . he had to stay home in nebraska , and to help my grandfather save his family farm from the banks that had already been repossessed by one-third of that amount . that most significant change my father had made was within his thinking : he arrived at farm thinking not as a subsistence operations , but as a family enterprise . that subsequently tracked inputs and weather patterns , which had rarely been accomplished at that time . my father realized that he could not pull things down on their own , and needed improved access to financing .
and it means making europeans collectively together with our auto industry , the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . just 0.6 billion tons come from recycling capacity . it also implies strict limits on co2 emissions to new passenger cars and public transportation and commercial seas and air travel . today , about eight billion tons of materials are processed into energy , or used annually in the eu . second , europe needs to take the lead , in those responsible for resource exploitation , and become a truly circular economy that minimizes waste .
but the payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it created , would be substantial . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council council has brought together a diverse group of experts and public practitioners to help infuse substance into foreign-policy debates leading to america ’s elections , including by preparing public debate paper . from my perspective , the overarching message should be that the us must conceive of itself as no more “ indispensable power , ” just as it now does , but as “ an indispensable partner . ” this is not merely a matter of semantics ; such change will require that america re-conceive its regional role . the key to success will be america ’s capacity to retain the best – and to abandon the worst – of which most american notions : exceptionalism .
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise was simply a “ restoration ” ” of the country ’s success enjoyed prior to nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . outsiders misread such a system , “ built on a clearly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes , with “ blood-lines royalty legitimacy at the top ” and “ a scholar gentry to administer state ” affairs – as a recipe for stagnation . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well prior to its confrontation with the west . from 1,500 to 1870 , per capita income barely shifted from $ 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to about $ 3,190 ) , and even spain doubled . as a result , china ’s political stability and the relative absence of violence came at the expense of economic dynamism rather than harmony with it .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan , that serves syrian refugees . in addition , morocco is a committed and longstanding ally of the us . its political stability , an open economy , and a balance of international relations are becoming increasingly aligned with america ’s and european regional interests . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous , complex region . morocco is well positioned to promote security and development throughout northwest africa and beyond .
most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven type ; in their scientific careers , they depict two kinds of typically male behavior . the first is the compulsion to be first to establish totally trivial facts about science . the questions posed by female faculty members , particularly in basic sciences , are far more complex . i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between the way female and male approach approach science is a microcosm of life . as i grow older , i am no longer certain about the importance of this as such , but the male members of our own species seem to think that it is .
so far , syria ’s authorities have not responded to the tharwa project . but the project appears to represent the type of activity that can help to produce the visions for change . that , combined with the prominence of the advisory council ( comprising well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french expert on political islam gilles mupel and flynt leverett , brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , combined with prominence , to present a project national , regional , and international notice . some within the syrian government might want to realize this . it is probably still too early in the games for that to happen .
that growth reflected the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth came about , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . that growth reflected the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth emerged , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , one must start asking the right questions . each new bilateral deal , every chapter of globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development and provide a dignified way for those who become economically displaced ?
cambridge – in its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , succeeded almost to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades .
of course , these countries may resist inflows of upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , like they did before the global financial crisis hit . now , consider the other major emerging markets , which are coming to the fore . herein lies the currency appreciation already exists , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 and , to some extent , can already say excessive ( for example , brazil ) . of course , these countries can resist inflows of upward pressure on their currencies by hoarding foreign-exchange reserves , like did so in the aftermath of the global financial crisis . why , then , should emerging-market countries ’ central banks commit to this strange financial intermediation , which represents a major expense , because the returns to private money are larger than the value of reserves ?
the asset-backed commercial paper market emerged to a standstill , and special-investment vehicles established by banks to get their mortgages off their balance sheets could no longer get outside funding . the final blow came when interbank lending , which runs at the heart of the financial system , crumbled , because banks were forced to husband their resources and are unable to trust their counterparties . central banks were compelled to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extending credit on an unprecedented scale on an unprecedented scale , multi-institutional sector than ever before . that made the crisis more severe than anything since world war ii . credit expansion now needs to follow an economic contraction period , because some of the new instruments of credit and practice are unsound and unsustainable .
the european signatories established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and entrepreneurship with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have broadened their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its rivals . likewise , britain , france , germany , russia , and china have opposed trump imposing crippling economic sanctions on iran . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is that what will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s greatest problem is that additional signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal , officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , from which he withdrew the united states , have remained committed to the deal . they are committed to preserving the accord , and to doing all it can to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue adhering to it .
an efficient solution to this problem exists : the solar-power technology . according to the african progress panel estimates , poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels , cash that can be spent on education , health , and productive investment . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . firms that provide such panels would obviously benefit greatly from tapping this large new market . to compare , the average american pays about 15 cents .
today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of all greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % of humanity account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of all emissions . this process has been unfolding for centuries , but it has accelerated in recent decades as a select few acquired an ever-larger share of total wealth and political influence . unwilling to stand up to those who are displacing our planet , our political leaders have latched onto tech-solutions solutions , including approaches of geoengineering , which promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
multiply 0.15 to $ 0.10 ( its hypothesized tariff rate ) , you capture 1.5 % . and when the growth slows because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . as a measure of gdp , foreign central banks can do this on an equal footing with the us . before that , imports constitute about 15 % of america ’s gdp ; now the us has a national interest rate of just $ 10 % . allowing some substitution to become more expensive imported goods has declined .
the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including legitimate right of citizenship , making the public good . so suppose a us government gets it right 19 times out of 20 , when it relies on suspicions of complicity in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if this were true of decision-making in the 2013 referendum , there would still be a very high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless . and yet simply karadžić citizenship does not resolve the problem of leaving at large a suspect terrorist , who might then conduct attacks elsewhere – unless , as with sakr , they are killed . indeed , the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including voting for citizenship rights , to the general public good .
first and foremost , china and india should stop building new coal-fired electricity plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop financing new coal-fired plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . private-sector firms would compete intensively to lower further the cost of renewables , including power generation , power taken generation , and energy storage and downstream uses like coal-powered vehicles , electric heating and cooking , and a new hydrogen economy . government and business combined should finance new research and development in order to drive costs even lower . as fossil-fuel old plants age and shut down , clean power generation should be replaced on a competitive footing , through renewable-energy auctions . governments should set limits on emissions , and the private sector should compete to deliver on low-cost solutions .
many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of canon ( the brics , minus russia ) . in an alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jean claude breaker , like bicsmikta , might end up finding too unwieldy to be workable . what the moroccan countries share is rapid economic growth and rising influence outside of their home borders . they have development challenges , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovations with a substantial stake in enabling post-wwii global institutions and rules-based order to transform . the bottom line , though that is russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene , will be a catalyst for new thinking about global challenges .
the purpose was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting surge in their prices pressuring households of household wealth and consumer spending . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal packages , increased transfers , and expenditures added more to the national debt than to gdp . it was too small to close the output gap , leaving behind continued downward pressure on demand . when the fed saw how weakly the upturn remained , it embarked on a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period . much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased spending by state governments that had been bailed out in other forms .
despite its different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see europe as a cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to a closer union . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily joining . indeed , danish voters saw most of the benefits of euro membership already because of the danish krone ’s unchanged links first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of ecb supporters to explain the distinction between that unchallenged policy and full euro participation . in denmark , my own country , an economic readiness , is not the issue .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only impediment to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must push for an initial move toward denuclearization , before any form of economic aid is on offer . but there is no reason why an international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . in fact , we need not suppose that those goals can not be pursued in the same way . on the contrary , a victory for north korea may prove impossible to win denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
the mutual mistrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably harm the soul of the union and the entire european project . and no one should doubt that the front and its voters mean what they say . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis concerns europe ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . rather than bolster pan-european solidarity , economic distress led to massive distributive conflict . what once was an relationship among equals has given way to a face-off between borrowers and lenders .
in the section of a “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ market economies of scale and consumers ’ economies of scope , a firm that sets a lead in market share gains a nearly crushing advantage . a version with its largest market share becomes the norm ; it is the simplest one to figure out how best to use , the simplest was to find support , and a one that works best with other products ( which is of course designed to work best with it ) . moreover , technology-produced information goods at a larger scale are also having more value to be made by consumers . unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps – such as that taken by microsoft against netscape , its competitor in the internet browser market , by pouring a fortune into the formation of its internet explorer , and then by distributing it for free – the first firm to set the dominant market position will reap high profits for so long as its industry lasts . the bigger the market , the bigger the cost advantage of the costs .
but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how much to admit , and by actually implementing organized ways to facilitate entry . that is why its member states must take the lead when designing solutions . creating safe , legal pathways for refugees to enter europe is one most urgent priority . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants fully ) . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant has to be accepted .
in recent years , american political and political institutions have , on the whole , become more polarized than distributing opinions among the american public to suggest . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say that the quality of life there is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their community is the most important thing they can do . citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as did their poll questions . in fact , the post-2008 us economic downturn was exacerbated . as an economist ’s recently concluded editorial in an economist , “ america ’s political system ” was designed to make federal legislation difficult , not easy .
new york – history at any moment may be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not just where we are but where we might be and do seem to be headed . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . it does distinguish , in an environment of enormous distinction , with an enormous difference .
ai , for example , shenzhen ’s urban air-mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter drops , leverages the city ’s well-known innovative capacity , while tackling congestion . ai initiatives that advance pollution-control goals , while ensuring equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . ai can also drive pollution an abatement . ai is working in this direction , and ai has already managed to reduce it in the last few years . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy for tackling air pollution . this does not necessarily mean inundating people with messages stories about global ecological devastation ; on the contrary , that approach can lead to desensitization .
after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals to reach a overall agreement – might be re-launched . everything else has already been unsuccessful , may be the one choice left for both israelis and palestinians . perhaps , but , so far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrous . meanwhile , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this .
and it would have the added merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of rescue operations . first , the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) must serve to rescue the banking system in the same way as eu member states . bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than remaining in the hands of national authorities , would be a fundamental improvement that helps to restore confidence . despite this added task , the magnitude of the rescue package could remain the same , because any sum used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks reduces the pool needed by governments . this would allow the sovereign-debt system to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis .
third , at some time over the next year or so , the uk will face a referendum over its european union membership . while no one knows that corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses who back him , might decide the eu is a wealthy man ’s club , thereby precluding a much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . in this scenario , leaders of the conservative party ’s far-right component are probably thinking that they can dispense with offer disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway . by contrast , at the start , may be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has gained wary respect but has little in common . second , without an effective and accountable opposition , governments can become arrogant , careless , and too oriented toward their own supporters .
a bailout came with aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with official financial institutions , usually sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s lloyd santander about . following the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s payments continued to mount , so that the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital to the end of the crisis two months later . the american government felt it had a weak hand , because it was n’t prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations . at that point , the us government asked aig for derivative counterparties to make voluntary , “ haircut ” – that is , accept a discount on the amount owed . when some of these parties refused , the us government backed up and financed aig in payment all of its derivative responsibilities fully .
at last , the world must recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s a peace process were totally dashed . israel has long since decided that it has little interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s coup is making things brighter . for its part , gaza is rule by a totally hostile regime . it will feel a free place to retaliate on cross-border attacks and resume rocket fire on civilian targets inside the country .
by the late 1970s , growth had begun to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity had taken hold . the aberrant period in history is the arab spring or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . the global population grew above 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over the following 50 years , with economies growing much faster than at any point in earlier centuries . human lives became markedly more productive , and life expectancies increased dramatically . today , technological innovation and demographics are headwind , not tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day .
the heart of japan ’s ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system , comprising the ldp and the dpj , because parties ’ divisions are , in fact , devoid of some consistent ideological and political differences . the us , both parties include conservatives and liberals ; defense hawks and the doves , among both parties ; both parties share conservatives and liberals . the dpj president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is an exemplar of this blinkered legacy . the sad truth is that the ldp will reform , or that the dpj is developing into a accountable government party of the foreseeable future , is slim indeed . japan is likely to be condemned to endure a chronic , nonsensical warfare system , comprising the ldp and the dpj , because parties ’ divisions are , in fact , devoid of some consistent ideological and political differences .
but bringing down the government would be inadequate to stem a no-deal brexit . that would have required conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( spd ) , and also the mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order . and , because his suspension from parliament had outraged rebel conservatives who previously balked at bringing down her own cabinet , a no-confidence vote now stands a bigger chance of succeeding . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and packed brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . a motley garrison of rebels would also have to back the creation of a caretaker government seeking a brexit extension , call a general election , and possibly also legislate against a second referendum .
this arrangement also required the usually vigilant american internal revenue service to play along . indeed , asi ’s profits stemmed from apple ’s long intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on research and development conducted exclusively in america ( most of which underpinned the us federal government ’s funding ) . these profits , too , should be taxed in the us . curiously , the irs are choosing not to enforce apple ’s ’s ’s own obligation to pay tax on its us-sourced ip profits . instead , apple has charge asi a symbolic levy aimed at enabling it to profit from apple ’s ip rights for which it pays a tiny tax to the irs .
each has acquired ( or maintained ) power through polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . such a political strategy is undeniably effective . the pekos ’ political style was enabled by a modern news media that , scrambling for audiences sharing while expanding , simplify , and sensationalize issues . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , and produces the electoral polarization on which the pekos have the fed . starkly antagonistic incumbents and positions tend to gain the most exposure .
that suggestion might be amusing coming from a baby , but there is nothing amusing when governments apply it , as it increasingly does to complex policies that involve science and technology . next summer , britons had their say on whether they want gene-spliced , or as genetically modified ( gm ) , the products in their fields , and food . in order to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for later this year on whether to allow commercial planting gm crops , brussels-based government ( at great expense ) a series of public debate around the country . at the same time , local governments and other organizations hosted hundreds of supplemental public meetings . the head of the british debates organizing committees , a professor malcolm grant , called them “ a unique experiment to identify what ordinary people really think once heard about all arguments . ”
there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders who want to return to business as usual with russia , as well as academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after it collapsed , see a chance for vindication . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with which they hang . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy the votes with which he destroys the eu . and , with public-opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans are falling around in line with putin ’s own rhetoric , his dividing strategy in the eu and nato appears to be making a genuine headway . in reality , the kremlin is financing many such parties .
improper agricultural practices are also to blame : liberal exploitation of synthetic fertilizers , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soils and altered their structure . at the same time , increasing global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels runs even more , in turn driving the value of land – a failure that has shut down international investors ’ attention . in germany alone , construction projects declare an average of over 75 hectares a day , on average . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , the cloudburst is now all that it takes to wash it away . indeed , according to the world bank , an estimated 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land to benefit millions of smallholders , pastoralists and indigenous peoples – has been affected by large-scale investment .
an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of a gulf ally , or the free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . convinced that history would judge the us president by his success at contain the iranian threat , broder also predicts that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . that is an odd place , given that today ’s two continuing us wars have only compounded america ’s economy ’s vulnerabilities . iran , like north korea ’s , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at containing the country ’s defiant states .
in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continues to impede investment required to modernize public-sector enterprises and place a major roadblock in the path of land-reform . for example , when a government borrows to buy land , it treats a debt but an offsetting transaction , when it sells land through a mortgaging mortgage effectively goes unrecognized . while germany ’s president does not intend to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day governance , his voice will no doubt be influential . it is here that germany should take pause and reflect on record . the imf ’s economic framework does not yet provide for counter-cyclical fiscal policies because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating an economy in a downturn .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as us president , yet the questions of russia ’s post-election interference will not go away . yet there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and greatly outlay – and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin preferred trump to his opponent , former us secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and running high lengths to this day – and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . to our mind , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by helping trump , the kremlin has been advancing its own “ longstanding yearning to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is completely unconvincing .
nevertheless , finance minister , arun jaitley ’s budget , has succeeds on several fronts simultaneously , not least in its convergence with vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india while targeting improved delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an average of 8-8.5 % rates in the next fiscal year . no budgetary changes could generate such marked , cost-freedom acceleration of growth . it is fair to say that the typically present-day statistics department stole thunder from this year ’s budget .
in its first decades , communist china built its military power and simultaneously used the soft power of the maoist revolutionary doctrine and the third world solidarity in order to cultivate its allies abroad . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , spending substantial resources to make itself an attractive overseas . following the failure of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity program of the 1930s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned toward a strategy that minimized military might and had relied on strategic alliances with the us . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its objective , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . but , following exhaustion from the maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to encourage economic development .
moreover , regulatory reforms are starting to alleviate shadow-banking risk , with even some ghost towns being animated by market forces . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since the beginning of this year , and the authorities seem well on track to hitting the carbon-intensity target set by 2010 . at the upcoming fifth-plenum , china ’s leaders must build on such progress , agreeing to maintain reform momentum . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even hard-bones ” – that is , overcome with vested interests resisting change . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as taking over a retired member of the politburo standing committee , china is ’s most powerful body .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
in keeping with the spirit of time , governments introduce business criteria for measuring effectiveness -- and “ success , ” more broadly -- in favor of public services . that means , first and foremost , that they set goals for performance . thus , the ministers proclaim street crime to be halved by next spring , or that the share of every generation going to universities will soar to 50 % in just five years . this method of governance makes finding that , at long last , we can hold policymakers accountable by setting whether or not the targets were reached . waiting lists for hospital beds are likely to be cut by one-third in just two years .
this helps explain why , with over half of his term leaving , the man who led the popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today -- the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since 1980 when democracy was re-established . peru 's president alejandro toledo has invented a new age-old sport , the " soccer " game in which he is the sole player . toledo has assumed the presidency plans to dismantle the corruption that characterized fujimori ’s administrations and put an end to the reign of his crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . instead of kicking the ball to win , he aims to do so that his adversary scores . toledo has argued that he would send all misofficials to partake – the words that have captured the imagination of peruvians , whom he aspires to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
a mistake in the us presidential debate can turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 debate with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . another event that could turn the tables was an “ october surprise ” ” tied to terrorism , which could shift the agenda from a financial crisis back to a security regime , republican politicians in a stronger suit . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies appealed to his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry might have been . in june 2004 , soon before the election , osama bin laden unleashed a videoton-tape that may have helped president bush defeat senator john kerry .
would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance to politics produce the ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir ? that search , after all , threatens to split a nation ’s elite . so why not elect a person like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? but i see a practical turn in all that nobody has not broached . let us compare two potential new presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and generally undermining the liberal world order , will severely harm the extremes of poor throughout africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help coal-fired power miners in west virginia . their mythical tribe has been great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a severe threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal of eradicating extreme poverty globally by 2030 is wholly dependent on continued economic growth via trade , technological innovation , and international collaboration . the powerful will always manage , but the weak will bear the brunt of the protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization .
some argue that the nation-state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must preserve a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . others argue that spurring the innovations that are needed to reach high-income status demands the state to be less like a single market participant and more like referees , a regulator , and an arbiter of economic and social priorities . without question , the nation-state has proved integral to china ’s development , not only through investment in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as the backstop as the nascent markets and private-public institutions developed . state engagement is also needed to help manage inequality and make growth patterns inclusive , which markets alone can not count on to do . moreover , the chinese state has settled conflict-resolution problems that are unable or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities can come in various phases of development .
egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . the government ’s cut in fuel subsidies last year did not follow through on additional reforms , and the desired tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it . virtually all political stakeholders in egypt , as in the case of the other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but the country ’s leaders have stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the almost one-half that is shrinking the workforce ; joint adjustment measures include public-sector pay cuts or conduits ; the withdrawal of food subsidies ; the withdrawal of food subsidies ; and the targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection schemes . these adjustment measures are often taken without examining carefully with their societal impact . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from insufficient food and sanitation ? how many children will miss education , because teachers are absent because they face low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family incomes ? how many poor children will suffer – or die – from inadequate food and sanitation ?
indeed , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future might play out in two ways . the initial scenario is dismal : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , job surges , and the new arrivals become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps they take must be taken to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists and might lead to violence from both sides . indeed , the world has a considerable stake in which scenario prevails . if , at worst , a terrorist attack were to occur – especially one that might , to some extent , tied to refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
the army , on the other hand , ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists , some sort of riding camels or lanels , to charge in cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of shi'a anti-government protesters was the classic “ army ” of shia-dominated libya . what is clear is that the interest of the “ military ” as an institution ” depends on the army ’s capacity to impose much greater separation from the regime . at this point , a fully democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters . successful political transitions also help if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition . in this respect , the fact that mubarak ’s demand for an instant resignation emanated from cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration is a positive development .
given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both international and domestic political onslaught . nevertheless , the extent of american cooperation with the icc has transcended even the constructive role suggested by the obama administration . evidently , american policymakers have become increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice in order to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . but has the nato operation , following so closely in the libya intervention , herald a police role for america whenever the un or the icc , which , lacking its own police force , relied on its members and interstate cooperation – the judges that were needed ? at the same time , they are clearly working in close coordination with ugandan forces .
one poll found that 19 % of americans feel that their incomes put them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday . so , why do n’t americans feel any more alarm at their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason they fail to is that most americans fail to recognize what works . deep in the heart of american ideology and culture constitutes a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : the belief that the future will run brighter than the present ; that individuals should rely on themselves , rather than the state ; that people can cross the oceans and the mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed are n’t through the luck and corruption but through the preparation and industry . these are not beliefs that are conducive to social democracy , and they deserve the future .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity , one that has emerged in the last five years alone . they have emerged from the un ’s biggest history summit , the “ rio +20 ” conference of the 2012 , followed by the un ’s largest consultation ever undertaken . if we set our thinking , we could come first in human history to walk away with our children ’s nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course set by the world ’s leaders when they met at the united nations meeting in new york on september 25 to adopt the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the un ’s 17 goals range from ending extreme poverty and improving health to protect the planet ’s biosphere , and to provide energy for all .
the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become the object of conspiracy theories and goals of intense harassment after being present at two terrorist attacks in just two weeks of each other . victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of safety and even self-worth eroded , remove themselves from social media altogether . accordingly , the noisiest often rewards a megaphone , while the less polarizing , less-privileged voices are being drowned out , even when they are provided with smart , nuanced perspectives that can truly enrich public debate . unless the algorithm does n’t do its job of silencing lower-privileged voices , online trolls frequently tread , directed hateful , and threatening speech at whomever they make their choice . likewise , women and minorities are particularly prone to online harassment , but anyone may be targeted .
few rich countries are doing better than america 's in the us . africans barely count on american politics , either . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden . i unified america , not because it is unique in its disregard , but because it is unique in its capacity to take the lead . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden .
in my view , keynes ’s great contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the basis of knowledge upon which our prospective yield estimates have to be made . ” this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s critical distinction between risk and insecurity . hence , as he put it in 1932 , there can be “ no escaping a prolonged , perhaps interminable depression , except through outright state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – which is what the obama administration rightly does . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate has more to do . krugman is hampered by pointing out that to “ irrationality ” , ” which , as cochrane points out , is no theory .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often compelled to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interests unite presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case , from the perspectives of italy ’s archbishop and former treasury secretary , with the world ’s response to climate change . indeed , their options sometimes seem mutually exclusive , making the determination of which way forward to take exceedingly challenging each other . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature variations , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who also have benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it .
and , on that day , he was so well lamented that his absence felt part of the show , somehow making us forgetting that it was not for the rest of us . hallyday was a baby of the generation that watched american gis enter paris , and that invented for itself as an american ascendance . abiding in each of us was johnny that moved us all of us : youth spent with a trip act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a character behind the modiano , who , between the bouts of drinking , pawned down the gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then there was the ’60s rocker with the gaze of a sorry wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in downlines of rye moods , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that they seem to be condemned to reside in every form of excess . he was an unlikeearly artist of the french scene , chameleon beamed around on a satellite tv , dripping with fake tv , and actual glitz , an artist who , like the novelist , was confessed as a way of lies .
of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but not to financial crises of the type we see periodically today . the keys to that period of growth and happiness were the robust socioeconomic welfare system and primarily keynesian domestic and foreign-focused economic policies in all of the world ’s big states . in addition , the post-wwii capitalism of decades maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering at around 2 % in europe , north america , the us , and japan . job insecurity returned then became mostly unknown , and the era of mass poverty disappeared . first and foremost , every advanced economy pursued policies designed to provide high wages , guaranteeing high consumption and hence rapid growth .
that seems to reflect a stance – echoed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped to set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . solidarity ( at least the sort of cost money ) stopped at the english channel . both the us and its stakeholders are interested and associated , but not absorbed by the eu . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employ the language of political ambiguities .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in its future – to assure and account for the protesters ’ safety . barack obama says that america has “ stands with ” those who advocate free assembly . that will be welcome news to people living under the dictatorial regimes that have installed and propped up , and from opposition leaders and us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged just such protests . in this crisis , america ’s presidential leadership should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him on precisely how to follow , sustain , and prop up those iranians who have been or may yet be arrested or worse off . natan sharansky has said that this tactic , the west tracking and demanding accountability to ensure treatment of individual domestic dissenters , has helped break up the soviet union .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to cement the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved ties with the outside world . there should also be some comprehension of what the russians and russians have gone by the end of two decades . closer ties between russia and the us make more sense . russia should be treated as a major power , which implies consultations on important global issues . there should also be some comprehension of what russians and russians have gone about in the last two decades .
but a consensus emerged in brazil that a center-left party could neither win nor govern with a hard-left mindset ; lula ’s presidency poses no challenge to that view . the largest are not always the rule of law upon which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the commercial risks of a failing company or a polity that implodes . whatever the case , for the key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , today ’s capitalism has become part of the solution , not the fundamental problem . the consensus may have reflected lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and more liberal market economies around the world and of brazil ’s growing middle class . simply put , investors take on all forms of risk ; they lack the consensus needed .
products will not have to be made in such factories , and then shipped to customers or inventory centers . when things can be made , used , broken/boxed , and recycled closer to their homes , the need for transport expands dramatically . of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenue – and not just apple ’s . one big loser in this world will be the us freight transport ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling stations ) . recycled materials need not go hand in hand with centralized processing centers , and then passed to factories .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included developing high-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production globally . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries , reeling from crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion , with rising food prices accounting for 17 billion people . achieving food security means ensuring that everyone has a consistent , affordable access to proper nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and the increasing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be easy .
indeed , for many years , erdoğan ’s domestic critics of the government have been denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” . turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt in the world . turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt . in reality , turkey needs europe as much as it needs turkey . europe is for turkey “ a principle of moderation ” and a enticement to remain democratic .
more people have died of cervical cancer last year than they did during fighting . indeed , over the last year , 580,000 cervical cancer deaths far exceed roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war i , world war i , world war ii , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . yet , at around $ 4 billion a year , government spending money on cervical cancer averages around $ 4 billion in annual terms . that is just above 0.5 % of annual military budgets of around $ 718 billion , according to the un figures for refugees and children . by contrast , experience shows that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats until they reach crises .
i had hoped that the us would have had the nerve to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep in our own national psyche , asking the big question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal ways ? ” a journalist visiting the kingdom of saudi arabia recently asked me , why five of the six students that he interviewed by firebrand saud university still believe that al qaida ’s opposition to the world trade center and the pentagon in america last year ? dealing with that question is increasingly frustrating for me , as i have run out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks has reflected our distress with what has happened on that dark day . so far , the us is nowhere closer than in the aftermath of us attacks to respond to this question because we can not even find our nerve to ask .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a worldwide phenomenon of increasing concentration of wealth at the top very pronounced in many arab countries . whereas tunisia was an extreme case of regime furthering the economic interests of insiders ’ small-scale clique , the pattern was widespread . that explains why the knee-jerk , the simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . top incomes in these countries have long stemmed mainly from established political patronage than from innovation and hard work . clearly , there is a clear need for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not the afterthought .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means it is made acutely vulnerable to the trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by its major trade partners . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950 ’s . indeed , trump ’s recent actions threaten not just trade , but something of america ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries combine more with the postwar order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system . but that , too , is no longer the case .
france has some of the highest labor costs to hourly employees in the eu , and the natural result is tepid hiring . with inequality also on the rise , many french are rightly upset that labor is taxed far more than capital income . during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to its average of at least 2 % annually and reducing unemployment to below 6 % . the simplest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming , relative to other eu countries . part of the challenge for unemployment is tied to hidden costs .
nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at around 80 % . in early december , putin signed the federal budget for 2015 , which foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth , and a budget deficit equivalent to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , combined with tough economic sanctions imposed by the american and european governments , meant that the government was predicting a 4 % drop in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp – and that , following budget cuts worth a 1 % - of-gdp cap on gdp . based on these figures , one estimates are that by the end of this year , russia will again spend 70 % of the reserves accrued over the past decade or so when oil prices were high . if low oil prices continue and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash by the end of 2016 .
given that libra takes the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? a standard “ efficient market-based ” analysis does not help us answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would not be self-correcting . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to sending money to be as easy as sending a text message . ” if argentina ’s people might switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with a single strand of their smartphones , wo n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first sign of trouble in the domestic economy ? but , of course , libra gets to sell as much .
the yield on a ten-year german bond that might have been expected to go higher because of the deterioration in inflationary expectations during that period was barely moving . at the same time , the recent rising euro also helped to keep european long-term interest rates down — a key determinant of economic activity — because inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat across the euro-zone . that is a big plus for sustaining us economic recovery . the rise of inflationary expectations during april and the euro ’s bust occurred more or less concurrently . it was should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson that causes investors to lose faith in american financial assets at some point in time ; a rising euro will help shield european interest rates from those consequences .
the united kingdom looks older and more stable , yet scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with the future set to be determined by the 2014 scottish referendum . this kind of political entity is an accurate counterpart in the politics world to be a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . of the six larger eu member states , only france has a truly well-defined centralized political system . when stressed , the grand surface bifurcasks in big chunks , but then disintegration continues in smaller , smaller , fragments . of poland ’s six larger eu member states , only france has a truly well-defined centralized political system .
we believe in banknotes because we collectively decide to trust a government when it says that “ 100 is 100 , not ten or even 50 . ” money , then , is about trust , without which no community can function . just as we follow our leaders ’ dictates to fight and die , because we trust our judgment , entrust our careers , and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and goldman sachs and other banks , respectively , because we believe that their leaders would fairly be fair to their employees and clients , honorable in their business practices . indeed , once that trust breaks down , bad things start to happen . we are not growing up wishing to work for croatia and portugal .
after all , despite rising to power with kgb aid , he did not surrender his thinking processes to that machine , in the sense that president vladimir putin obviously had . in fact , he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise rather than rage – in fervently contrary to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . despite rising to power with kgb support , he also failed to surrender his thought processes to that machine , in the sense of president vladimir putin himself , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was truly peaceful . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise rather than rage – in sharp contrast to , , , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . likewise , far from fitting debunked the mold of a democratic machine , sanders is working to pull the party back more than one toward the social democratic left where one exists .
surprisingly , rich countries ’ negotiators drop out of large numbers when describing the bargains from even untrustworthy agreements . those in the developing world , believing that there has been a history of bargaining leverage in bad faith , have a powerful case in point . that leaves developing countries confronting a hard choice : will they be better off accepting the crumbs that are offered to them ? whatever economics takes this route may be harder today than ever : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates can punish governments that embrace what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . at the same time , america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that .
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) , the world of the efficient particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european atomic energy agency ( iaea ) , announced that the celebrated discovery in the 2012 higgs boson was indeed the higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers forecast that the lhc would produce microscopic black holes that will swallow the earth in a matter of months . of course , these prophets were neither the first nor the last of their species ever was . latter-day nostrums have provoked widespread fear rather than mention lawsuits , some high-energy particle physics experiments . now , the standard model of particle physics is incomplete , save for one important point : blacks .
during the democratization process of the 1990 ’s and 1990 ’s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , reaching 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of its “ real plan , ” ” ” ” ” launched in 1994 to suppress annual price growth to an “ acceptable ” ” ” ” 22 % by the following year . today , with central bankers in developed countries fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once more constrained in responding to widespread fears about slowing growth and a return to high inflation . at the same time , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , the former economy minister , was recently elected president ( between 1994 and 1998 ) to demonstrate voter concerns about price stability .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was gloomy . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions and the weakening of the us stock market , these “ citigroup of the universe ” obviously appeared less omniscient than they did a short while before . those who felt that “ globalization ” , tech , and market economies would solve the global economy ’s problems appeared to be subdued . most chastened of all were central bankers , coming to the fore . and it was not just the central bankers who had been at davos doghouse this year , but also of their regulators and central bankers .
this holds down interest rates on that debt in the short run but generates even bigger potential losses when a potential default is put in place . the banks and politics are deeply intertwined in almost every advanced economy , with local government in the united states . the european central bank has provided heavy emergency “ liquidity ” funding to banks that they are using to purchase even more government debt . diamond have discovered that , ultimately , trump ’s bankers – at least in the uk . now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone ’s periphery , government defaults endanger the big banks .
even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980s has left the country ’s over-extended drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiency in existing manufacturing systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the division of labor into infrastructure investment and governance between the general public and the private sector , rather than the goal of crowding in the latter out . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to medical care , the financial-services industry , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . for example , despite low average growth rates , the bottom quintile ’s income grew by over 6 % annually in the 1980s , owing largely to more cost-effective welfare policies .
according to the most recent data running through july or august for most countries , there are just 14 cases of high inflation ( a red line in the figure ) . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( a green line ) is higher in 2015 than it is when countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of the population ) ( 7 % of gdp ) . venezuela ( which has not published official inflation statistics so far this year ) , and argentina ( which has not released reliable inflation data for a few years ) , figure prominently in this group . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the outside . in the period leading up to the 1970s oil shocks until the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % .
in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply enable its universities to deteriorate . on the continent , this has been happening since the late 1970s . for the most part , the quick fixes they have imposed have not been very successful . overcrowded classrooms in often deficient physical surroundings without a necessary equipment have led to ever longer trials , deteriorating quality degrees of degrees , and massive unhappiness among both students and professors . to be sure , an alternative exists in the us .
as a political activist in the closing days of yugoslavia , i tried to build up to the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . two million kosovars suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . only the bloodshed of war , sad to say , can seal this diplomatic bargain . the need of kosovo to be liberated from milosevic ’s grip has been so obvious for a decade . for years , they have struggled to speak of their grievances by peaceful means .
the phenomenon has taken many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . attempts at “ nation-building along secular lines ” have been mirrored by egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party ( ppp ) , leading to the establishment of the united arab republics , a union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world have resulted in neither political tendencies , instead reflecting a widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that has claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt returning power to its own army and proscribing its muslim brotherhood , tunisia has so far been the only cure . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what to turn out to be the region ’s most secular and fairest elections .
berlin – the way we eat into the industrialized world is undependable , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , there are about 300 million tons of meat being produced annually , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual value will soar to 455 million tons in the year ending in 2050 , if demand continues to grow at its current pace . so huge amounts of meat can be produced only on the industrial front , and at high social , political , and ecological costs . the far too many of the meat we consume is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social environments . and now , ours is the industrial model of meat production to the global south – particularly india and china – where meat consumption is rising among these countries the emerging middle class .
cambridge – for some time now , the year horsemen ’s america ’s macroeconomic policymaking featured taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having studied the first in detail , i found that tax cuts to turn out to be a positive contributor to economic growth . while i treated the second-field in fewer detail , evidence suggests that regulation is at best only a minor contributor to growth . a third area is highly relevant , one that makes trade tensions so worrying today . the fourth area exists only on rhetoric : an infrastructure program currently does not share some of the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
as gordon notes , the long-lasting productivity dividend associated with urbanization has occurred , a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but the time will come when that tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will become uphill struggle . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges that confront america and others .
the sad truth is that the chance to right puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not seized . in contrast , the us oversight council recently certified a new fiscal plan and an agreement along bond holders , issued by the puerto rican urgent interest fund corporation ( cofina ) , that could place the island at a debt straightjacket indefinitely . and the cofina deal is itself a part of a larger , debt-restructuring effort that relies heavily on commonwealth ’s unrealistic assessments . at $ 17.8 billion , cofina ’s stock ( backed by future sales-tax revenue ) still accounts for more than one-third of the total debt under the new fiscal plan . yet the plan has been projected to detract economic activity even further , wiping out the appropriate basis for calculating how much a debt restructuring puerto rico might need .
ten years on , what impact has the principles had on displaced people ’s lives ? in response , we raised awareness about the displaced ’s plight , brought about changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars to respond to their fundamental needs . this helped save the lives of countless lives , from success in the process . the achievements are notable , if not all . humanitarian efforts continue to be intensified , including through a rapid new funding facility , the un office for disaster response ( world leaders ) .
“ the man who dies the rich , ” ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . “ the man who dies the rich , ” ” ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . wearing a watch that costs 200 times as much as one does a better job of keeping time is said to be something else , even barring men from administering a comparatively poor country . in essence , such is the point of saying ; “ i ’m either extraordinarily ignorant or merely selfish . ” we may be adapting that judgment to a man or woman who wears a $ 30,000 watch , or buying up similar luxury goods , like the equivalent of a $ 12,000 handbag .
under this monumental work , totaling some 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea , nearly universally assumed economists , and many philosophers in david hume , that the role of reason tells us how to get “ what we want ” but not to tell us what to want . he shows that both “ overall ” and “ “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . but then , so , too , does every other answer that has been proposed since parfit revived the problem , and other philosophers started offering really their own solutions . by contrast , parfit argued , desires can be irrational . if causes and individuals could readily have posed three separate books on what matters truly are : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , whereas the third , in the press , when parfit died , just appeared .
there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , like zimbabwe ’s ’s ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one part of its interlocutors in davos . seeking mental health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment on high blood pressure , on diabetes , or on cardiac status . these frequently include problems in lower-income communities , where populations can be at greater risk of pathology and often face the highest barriers to receiving care , partly owing to a lack of specialized resources at wealthier facilities . by acknowledging mental health and internet-ness issues at work , we can make a difference in our houses , schools , and communities alike . moreover , we must crack down on mental-health inequity , frequently ignored issues .
for this reason , americans can not afford to accept even the minutest of their ports ’ chances – the consequences of error being too staggering to contemplate . the american public can understand this even if their president does not . experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack due to the dubai takeover is small . should the damage inflicted on a terrorist attack , too , could be small . but the damage inflicted on an attack might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons in the us .
but the four political developments that have roiled the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , the revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military interventions in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have an enormous impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . finally , the first nato summit , to be held in the united states in 13 years , is taking place not just in an election year , but also in us president barack obama ’s hometown . third , in a speech last june , outgoing american secretary of defense robert gates revived the debate about trans-atlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance .
together , they manage vast areas of our planet , including more than 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . yet smallholders can not be ignored when they face a climate-change solution : a world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production , and provide as much as 80 % of food supplies in the developing world . can we really count these farmers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leadership role in meeting the twin challenges of food insecurity and ecological sustainability ? can they produce more food , while also conserving our natural environment ? we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes .
one such reform would be if foreign investors were to expand their access to us companies abroad . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s annexation of crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as has the country with its own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright bans on food imports from the european union and us companies . over the past decade , it has been illegal for foreigners to make investments in more than 40 industries designated national security critical for the us government . this prohibition , while beneficial for industrial insiders , has diminished russia ’s international access to financial markets and , more critically , to the new technologies that follow the flow of financial flows . lifting these restrictions would provide not only an immediate boost to the us economy , but also boost long-term gdp growth .
throughout the run-up to the brexit referendum , british prime minister david cameron gained an opt-out clause in the eu on a decision to move toward ever-closer union . in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for the cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany remain very hesitant about eu enlargement . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu on the long stated goal of “ ever-closer union ” – which implies eu political unification , and shared national and asean sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership to prevent deepening european integration . both the cee countries and the uk have always been rather fraught . the relationship between the cee countries and the uk has always been rather fraying .
and the workers of the future will require skills training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . entrepreneurial majors should study the evolution of economic and political life , so that they can avoid becoming the “ blind , ” determinists . economists need to learn from engineering students , because the engineers will build the future labor force . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights in order to obtain the insight that will be needed to defend people from forces that can seek to transform individuals into disposable pieces . educators prepare students for this future must start now .
indeed , in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with writers and producers themselves . serious breaches can result in reprimands or dismissals . sporadic complaints and warnings from above enable them to develop a counterintuitive sense of the frontiers of tolerable content , so that they create shows free of offending material from the start . in effect , the system has become mostly self-regulating . the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; smaller levels have little collaborative inputs and no right to appeal .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has opted to broaden the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 , making room for the longest continuous session in the japanese parliament of postwar history . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a bundle of us national security bills allowing a reinterpretation of japan under a constitution that empowers the country to play a bigger role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s moves at the diet comes on the heels of his performance at the recent g-7 summit in germany , where he broke with the japanese tradition . for the last 39 years , japanese representatives from the g-7 made a spotlight on economic debates at such meetings content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots and advocated action , or , more often , inaction . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put eastward enlargement as long as the russian and us presidential elections passed . he instructed the ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that talks not to be left to nato machinery alone . to underline this , labour ’s first foreign-policy activity after the return from his summer holiday was a visit in early september to the ailing boris yeltsin with whom kohl had friendly relations . in germany ’s parliament , the chancellor of the exchequer announced that yeltsin would “ renew the necessary dialogue and resolve to take on concrete issues , such as nato enlargement … and i was able to reach agreement with president clinton , president chirac , and prime minister major that we will now refrain from dealing decisively with the crucial matter of nato-russia enlargement in some framework so that moscow does not feel the creation of a fiat accompli . ” in germany ’s parliament , the german chancellor proclaimed that yeltsin would “ renew nato ’s necessary dialogue and resolve to involve concrete issues more urgently , like nato enlargement … . ”
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , which comprise a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and individual ownership . in this world without any utopia , individual freedom tends to be the supreme value . but , as with any change of such magnitude , there are some holdouts . just this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , proper body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic illness . at the same time , these changes are triggering variations in human consciousness .
london – the gravity of the european crisis has finally sunk in . governments and the international monetary fund have a scrambled to establish a resolution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . european leaders must now aim to maintain not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration as well . so far , many questions have answers to design ; implementation will be at least as daunting . the stakes could not be higher .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world is properly worried by myriad big-tech privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding – and secure – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” many around the world poses a very different question : what about the right to see ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence consumed a untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , peru , thailand and mexico . the swiss re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic vision with a pragmatic vision . healthcare professionals turned the lead in pressing governments – through mechanisms of direct democracy , to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users toward the public-health policies underlying the scientific evidence of what works . the swiss had implemented methadone programs , and , in order to prevent the spread of hiv , create needle exchanges , including in prisons , establishing safe injection on a massive scale . the swiss federal public health administration also oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to a people who have lived with opiate dependency on major times .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence will have upon operating our economies , and labor markets have proved to be a hot topic for a very long time . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is its ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by being the micro second “ ahead ” of everyone else ’s . but jerry kaplan ’s recently book human need not apply : the conduit to wealth and work in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed me the true size of socioeconomic stakes . soon a new type of enhanced uber might emerge , seek to emerge , integrate a car , bus , ships , airplane scores , and hotel rooms into one super-app . another is price-discrimination capacity by new digital-market makers like uber , which therefore fits every penny of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating the necessary from the desirable . some 2.1 billion people globally lack access to safe , readily accessible water at home and more than twice that of many – a whopping $ 4.5 trillion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling rivers pollution . with a rising share of the global population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water provision , and health could not be more important . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize math is vital . global health and conservation professionals need to work more carefully to find these solutions – and to convince policymakers to pursue them .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose corporate model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than electricity usage . indeed , large firms in almost every field are vulnerable as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and able , like larger firms , to reach customers and users everywhere . furthermore , disruptive technologies will cause the value to shift across economic sectors , as occurred when television over-chose radio , or , more recently , when online media gained predominance over print publication . firms in every sector now must invest in understanding the new technology , so that they are ready to seize opportunities , or mount an effective defense quickly . indeed , it is necessary for ceos and other top executives to become technologists , or at least technology-savvy ones , to evaluate how innovations influence the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools .
by 2013 , the share had dropped to 13.5 % . over the last year , the world ’s 193 governments are meeting to set new global goals that must be met by 2030 . the task amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspiration into concrete goals . although the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than were at the end of 1991 , 209 million were starving . over the next year , the world has managed to feed almost two billion more people adequately – no small feat .
moreover , fifteen people were killed and many more injured in what is remembered as the peterson massacre . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished the rotten boroughs , and extended the franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the greed and corruption of that era was satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the story of today . in view of the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite grudgingly agreed to democratizing the reforms . the united states , too , went though the period with robin baron industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s .
narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a brazilian illness : throughout the west , much of the public viewed globalization as leaderless , devoid of human face , and is akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . whereas the defeated remain side , an established economic campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave side waged a culture war through exaggerating immigration fears and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” what makes britain so worse off , for example , is the string of gross flaws of political judgment during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . moderate leaders everywhere must now react not only to the economic discontent of the millions who are losing out , but also to the sense of cultural pessimism and spoiling politicians just as they are for themselves ” ” ” ” quashing succor toward the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . yet , thanks to farage , and farage , who took over the governing conservative party , an argument for economic self-harm that unambiguously runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism .
every firm and business association must decide the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . a survey of current laws and regulations found that many are mutually contradictory and overlapping . ande proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution . it was successful because of strong public support to combat corruption . the new tribunal is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflicts and duplications .
just a year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what the us stood out against : a corrupt government sought to command life and labor , and the dispose of state assets at its will . in so far as formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied upon to enforce these rights when our rulers saw their own interests as being challenged . in evicting this regime , we believed that this form of absolutism was stopped . instead , those who profited from the regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the assets they stolen were inbreach . how did ukraine achieve this kind of cynicism ?
another community nearby had the same program , except that the micronutrient supplement was provided without a protein . for the child who received atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half . they remained in school longer , learned more , scored higher on adulthood ’s cognitive tests , and were more likely to be employed in higher-paying , skilled jobs . moreover , on average , community health workers visited mothers during pregnancy and provided free medical services . one community was provided committed access to micronutrient deficiencies and a protein supplement called atole .
not since day one was riven by the coalition . rather than blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the coalition members blamed one another . it emerged as adversaries rather than coexisted as partners . such a squabbling appears that it was a postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power .
the difference between then and now , then , is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not through utopia but rather through despair . whereas the bri resorted to the ballot boxes , the french adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stacks . though the economy was in full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s rule of china . they were joined by well-organized trade unions that helped move to a critical mass , at least temporarily . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike what french brexit is , in which it amounts to a firing act in the foot .
and she has little room for doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . to mark all of this , she is denouncing all , and regrets , of her most cherished values and beliefs . what strikes me most is that they see , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts , and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she worries about early human-rights violations , notably women ’s rights , that she worries will multiply . she feels that , in acting as she has done , she has true to her most cherished values and beliefs .
faced with escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win friends in the region , china . while china ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours already have made clear . over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china in adopting an eu containment strategy . as the largest trading partner of numerous asian countries , china will offer attractive terms of trade to its neighbors , very much as it has done with singapore . the most frequently prominent feature here is trade .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among a finance cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of making a profit when its value goes down . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i think to myself that the game will soon be up for the greeks . a speculator can “ short the government , ” by borrowing its debt on its current price , in the hope that it sells it later at lower prices and pocketing the difference . i borrow , at preface value , € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond that is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs after its full six months in office .
taking advantage of news media ’s implicit authority , they published any potentially harmful rumor about individuals or groups with means and influence , then offered to remove the story in exchange for a money-paying advertisement or direct cash payments . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried the “ character assassination ” of online news reporters demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector . indeed , the lack of restrictions allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diversified tribal composition was mirrored in newly established web sites , some of them formed with tacit support , and even funding – from security agencies or any other official or political group . moreover , many people launched newsweb sites exclusively for funding acquisition .
dozens of innocent people were killed , including one of the world ’s top accomplished peacemakers , sergio vietnamese de mello . predictably , president bush re-declared his determination to wage war on terrorism . other leaders declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet the bombings raise political questions that are demanding answers . the poison of terrorism has now torn apart the un ’s humanitarian task force with the tragic bombing of its iraqi missions .
to boost russia ’s political influence over georgian separatist regions , gazprom , without taking the trouble to ask for georgian democratically elected leaders , has begun constructing a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . but these are , in fact , illicit occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to such regions ’ inhabitants attests . to the extent that most of abkhazia and south ossetia have already accorded russian citizenship , recognizing these two regions ’ sovereignty would be entirely fictitious , and effectively concurrent an interim measure on the path toward their full annexation by russia . indeed , russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia , if the west does know kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . though there has been no interruption of gas deliveries from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is vital for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration by this georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
the sad truth is that many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history to think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump is good on trade , they seem unconcerned that he represents the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values and to its image and interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves by thinking that they could put their country on a vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and insights , he remained the best defenses against communism . confident that trump might look a bit too far at the chinese on trade , they seem unappealing , but at least he has questioned the right questions .
even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions the outlawing of the benevolent , low-risk data-mining that drives online ads . not only will it produce administrative burdens through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many in europe ’s most prominent online companies . online advertising gives eu citizens access to information , training material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites whose owners pay no direct value , and the amount that is spent in europe is rising fast . yet the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all of this . industry ’s stock of income has more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall european economy has stagnated .
today , the bloody good period donates sanitary products , including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month . but , at a time when re-usable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were provided to girls in eight schools , attendance rose at an average of 17 % on average . when programs are developed alongside rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss school because they do not have access to clean sanitary products . but , at the same time , the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken , to enable women and girls to obtain the sanitary products they need at an affordable price .
for example , a new law regulating the judiciary has been the request of the revolution since its early weeks . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down a statute rendering the effort meaningless . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” had been a decisive , albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and therefore politically costly , – step in to break the impasse . he had previously been supported twice : once in july 2012 , after abandoning his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and , once again , when he sought to remove a public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . but , for a number of revolutionaries , other ways appeared to sack the tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary .
more importantly , it amounts to treachery of america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . in foreign-policy terms , america ’s secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of the monroe doctrine – the nineroe assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to keep european competitors – in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s growing influence . tillerson ’s 1823 nostalgia was not sharing all the southern border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ served ” to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . moreover , it amounts to treachery of america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . his nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear-armed devices to deliver submarine the nuclear-equivalent in power to those that devastated hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such arrangements will prove futile in managing capital flows . at the same time , the governance architecture of systemically important multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund needs to be reformed in order to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , these institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and providing crisis insurance . policymakers in advanced and emerging-market countries alike should focus on underlying failures that are destabilizing their economies and impeding growth , rather than trying to treat symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . at the same time , the governance architecture of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets .
the economic challenges facing a developed-country middle class are largely the result of two factors : rapid middle-class lost – and blue-collar manufacturing jobs to automation and shifting middle - and lower-value-added white - and lower-value-added jobs into lower-labor countries with lower labor costs . the latter pattern has depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in non-tradable service industries , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions at the center – and lower-middle-income ranges , rather than dissimilar surplus labor at early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( to some extent ) even as the economy expands . the decline in labor ’s bargaining power and falling real-wage may also have contributed to income polarization , though those are likely secondary factors . though the middle-class challenges are well documented , america ’s leaders largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , far fewer implementing efficient countermeasures .
zurich – finland ’s central-bank governor , olli rehn , has echoed his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its monetary-policy framework . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . zurich , finland , european central bank governor olli rehn , has echoed his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming change of leadership at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director , having presumably succeeded mario draghi as ecb president – provides an important opportunity to heed that call .
for several decades , europe constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , an area where history seemed to have all but ended . such scenarios were unimaginable until only recently . nonetheless , dramatic change came at the expense of europe . one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and ability to project military power , economic coercion , and cyber-manipulation to advance his agenda . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free was largely realized .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of his many planned infrastructure projects worldwide , which is nominally environmentally sound , despite posing serious ecological risks .
for the ecb , this generates an especially serious challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it needs to account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns ’ national governments , with little to no sustainable or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , such measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to influence the real economy has diminished . today , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation increasingly affects global rather than local , development , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies is far more influential than monetary policy .
beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than the nearby rural countryside in the daytime , and 5.5 ºc warmer at night . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the nearby countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that affects not only downtown areas , but also cover some 8,000 square kilometers . around the world , there are even more dramatic increases to around the world in tokyo . look at a fast-growing town like houston , texas , we can see the real effect of a urban heat island . today , the fastest-growing segment of cities is in asia .
a rising minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms became new sources of community life , with no help . the sweat of one ’s brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption , often conspicuous consumption . and , as coworkers began to assert themselves together , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a precious source of physical and mental wellbeing . in the us , some people saw such changes happening and worried by them .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared his intention to hold a referendum on the proposed quotas . some , such as the danish people ’s party , wish to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to flee the european union , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation schemes have proved to be particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda in 18 eu-wide countries across the eu .
from the start of his us presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime was inadequate . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he can surely ask his audiences to think about jobs in high-ups planes , freight trains , and trucks that traffic in the american interior . the main problem , though , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest , american labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility toward commerce . he has stated repeatedly that us exports are good for the american people : they create jobs . yet america ’s exports are other peoples ’ ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs .
it was n’t until the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against god . this inspired the american way of life , where money always spoke . it was now viewed as healthily promethean to turn wealth into money , and put it to work to make more money , because , by doing that one was benefiting humanity . the end of capitalism implies simply the end of the urge to listen .
rather than focusing on treatment that works , the polish government chose to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the vicinity of rural areas that have little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . poland also chooses to treat even the smallest amounts of drug use as criminal , as demonstrated by the fact that some 60 % of the people convicted for drug-related possession in poland comprise marijuana smokers . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted to imprison drug users . addressing narcotics use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , and the rate of usage has failed to diminish . by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates , at least , have remained near zero for at least six years now . crisis management has led to major market distortions , with some segments ’ performance-based performance no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming more apparent , and will become more tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . with more liquidity , markets have been flooded with liquidity .
in the indian ocean , nato works with the european union , as well as many others to police major sea-lanes threatened by local pirates . nato is developing its ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against its grave and growing threat . and , in countries around the world , it performs tasks such as de-mining , catastrophe relief , advising on how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children . the threats have changed as well as become more global . the alliance has evolved into a genuine security-management entity that is both flexible and efficient and cost-effective .
meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of the dying – and lethally , fossil-fuel industry . describing a shift to us electric vehicles like a workgenerated workforce killer , trump has advocated closing federal subsidies that encourage domestic r & d , manufactured , and purchasing power , such as the $ 7,500 federal tax credit generated by the consumer . to boost sales , us buyers are exempted from us sales , and an excise tax ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 a vehicle ) . and , anticipating an eventual substitute for conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities offer generous subsidies for domestic manufacturing . china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel companies has left it mired in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out .
the measure might also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortive measures , making them somewhat perilous . moreover , a us tax would probably have regressive distributional effects , hurting poor countries the most . but a way to calculating the appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . for example , it would necessitate calculating the fiscal equivalent of a regulatory cap . granted that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with world trade organization rules .
if all eurozone members did participate , article 136 of the eu ’s functioning could be used to support their action.the extent of that provision , which says that the [ european council ] shall proceed , the fact that the [ european council ] shall proceed by treating the actions of specific keep [ european ] member states ] , ” and that “ only ” member states … do engage in the vote ” is wide . moreover , article 138 would permit unified eurozone representation at both the international monetary fund and the world bank . ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu on the design of its institutional framework . by extension , article 138 would permit unified eurozone representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank . by definition , it could extend cooperation across three other policy areas :
for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center has countered that circumcision is a part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ antiaggression ” [ of ] religious liberty . complicating matters further , the two sides are basing their human-rights arguments on the conduct of human rights . for example , some ban ’s supporters have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( the udhr ) , which states that “ never anyone will be subjected to torture or to cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s “ bishop , ” warns that ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject to six years in prison . gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ all has the right to believe what they want , ” but she insists that “ the rights of children come above the law of women .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculus of a major state like china , but it probably has little impact on either state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the world economy . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence , punishment , and deniability as they assess opportunities for deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also heed the mechanisms of entanglement and norms . to be sure , entering every adversary of netanyahu and disruption poses a risk of escalation . “ persistent engagement ” can nonetheless help aid deterrence in such difficult cases .
nevertheless , more will be needed to reestablish financial stability , such as enlarging the overall firepower of the european financial stability facility . confirmation of a tighter and more rigorous stability pact also makes it an imperative for more integration . moreover , if we want the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , in the absence of growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be solved . here , the eu summit in december produced an important step forward regarding the deepening of political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . more fundamentally , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness , which ultimately determines value added to goods and services .
shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , assets developers , and small enterprises . the financial stability board has estimated that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 have amounted to $ 67 trillion , with american ledgers accounting for cn ¥ 23 trillion , the world bank for $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom for $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , with private capital accounting for only $ 90 trillion . in 2007 , the volume of royalty transactions in the us surpassed that of conventional banking assets . ultimately , it is funded via retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital .
in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle eastern failures , but there are several factors worth pondering : an escalation of the number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political differences between a centrist american president and a us congress that dominates more than ever only extreme notions . he has affirmed that only both sides ’ willingness to make a successful outcome . clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict . but obama himself bears a large share of the blame .
china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-cost differentials . but it can become exceedingly good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and use the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in skills training and skills training . in the future , but that kind of trade will probably become much less important . with wages in china now rising precipitously , its labor-cost advantage is quickly diminishing . moreover , as economists like mit along with david autor have shown the impact of this in advanced countries can be both bad for some workers and good for corporate earnings .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging , and what does a smaller share of the working-age population mean for the country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most demographic prediction for china derives from the country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) at 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data published by the us national bureau of statistics suggest that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ just-released report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr through 1.4 in 2006 , marketing it among low fertility countries . a long time of low fertility implies that china ’s population is both aging and working-age growth slowing . can – and should – anything be done , especially to a country of single-child ” policy be slowing this trend ?
until the currency crash of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . many then switched to inflation targeting ; but they tended to miss these targets even more often than advanced countries do . at the same time , many then switched to inflation targets ; but they tended to miss these targets even more often than advanced countries do . the problem with these approaches in monetary-policy targeting is that , while a particular numerical target may be sensible when it is established , successive unexpected developments often make the targets harder to live with . after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targets for inflation .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt practices as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . in fact , the dangers now confronting europe over socializing debts are far greater than those posed by mere potential financial crises . if you lend to your friend , they will no longer be a friend to the eu . if europe ’s national governments are to want to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally grant humanitarian aid , unconditional conditionality , and redemption . unless that wisdom is heeded , holding europe together will be impossible .
last but not least orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which primarily affect hungarians living in west european countries ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having dented hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as “ respected all over europe . ” trump and his advisers have reportedly learned bulk from orbán on racist immigration policies , and on his own way to destroy democracy . they are n’t making america great , or even well ; they ’re making it hungarian . in fact , trump and his kremlin advisers have been using similar tactics from orbán .
whereas orbán has invoked economic pressure to compel the closure of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the us press as acting as the enemy of the people ” ” and threatening actions on libel against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil service and completely politicized the law-enforcement administration . trump is doing much the same , with the implication that america ’s government now loses some 94 % of its corporate regulatory tribunal cases . at the same time , trump has tempered some 17,000 public officials by firing us state department employees , shutting down government posts , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formulate and implement us policies . by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , beginning to capture the us department of justice , and committing itself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is well off in his quest to destroy america ’s rule .
“ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast location munich with a program telling you that it was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right away from florida , this does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right away from florida . ” but it is not clear from the ayyadurai of article that data were used and there is no validation of that model . folta offers a brilliant send-up ayyadurai ’s work . rather , to decide it does not challenge those data , folta continues , and the eu is publishing a map depicting that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing any of the other data , and the claims of millions of rather dry germans , make you feel brilliant . instead , this means turning things wrong , in your program , conjecture , or inputs – all of them testable .
but , by the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . the sum of its headline commitment was impressive , amounting to as much as 20 % of gdp . in other words : europe faces a fundamental , collective-action problem . experience showed that only an acute crisis can compel europe ’s leaders to pursue a concerted effort . instead , they have settled on a previous package of domestic measures to stabilize one another ’s national banking systems by one .
following its civil war pitting then-west pakistan against bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a surge of eastern refugees , india started supporting rebel groups there . the two sides were fought again in 1971 , though kashmir was not the focus . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-administered kargil district . west pakistan was compelled to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state .
moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance against conventional antibiotics and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnoses and establishing drug sensitivity . moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance against conventional antibiotics and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnoses and establishing drug sensitivity . with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv conserving the immune system , tb has reemerged and is the number-one hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people are suffering from co-infection by hiv , and mycobacterium tuberculosis , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . whereas pandemics seem abrupt , spread quickly , and raise enormous fears of imminent threats , tb has been spreading slowly but steadily over tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities .
ironically , continued progress toward fiscal union would make eu political union increasingly unlikely , for one simple but vital reason : france . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france has thwarted all attempts to pool europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s christian national assembly rejected a treaty for national defense organizations in europe . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european union constitution , which could mark the beginning of the process of political unification . as a result , europe ’s strongest military power by far , france thwarted all attempts to pool europe ’s armed forces .
the limits of inflation targeting are now clear . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with accountability , regardless of whether there is legal commitment to reduce financial vulnerability . they know that their zombie supervisor has a powerful tool at their disposal , for example , can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the interests of banks ( at least for some time ) and powerful interests in protecting its reputations . moreover , micro-prudential supervision implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ ’ independence , and policy conflicts , all of which might influence financial intermediaries ’ behavior , by encouraging them to assume more risk . this will not be easy , not least because of another new operational burden , set on numerous central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision .
in contrast to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large-scale , productive firms . if the small , unproductive firms closed and the larger , more productive firms that employ their workers , the total output and well-being would continue to rise . this should occur automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms are supposed to deliver a better product at lower prices while bmw workers with higher wages . according to standard economic reasoning , this is inefficient . so , why does n’t that happen routinely in the developing world ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , much of the world ’s attention has centered on president jiang zemin ’s successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation , made in 1998 the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as the premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . given the post ’s obvious importance in recent years , the choice of mr. zhu ’s replacement may be of an even greater significance than that of president jiang ’s passing from the center stage . henri was china ’s jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric , a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on performance . even before becoming premier , sir zhu , as the chairman of the china central bank , was well known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s , and the mastermind of its successful fight against inflation .
by contrast , trade among african nations accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s exports and imports . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the top 11 african economies should have reached more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not of china or india ) . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s population ) by the end of 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchanges . yet , in part because several african countries escaped the hang-over from the global credit crunch , more investors focus on the business opportunities there . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stemmed partly from successful demutualizing their stock exchanges .
in fact , some countries go suffering when skilled workers emigrate . but the failure to devise mechanisms that enable migrants to apply their skills causes even more damage . establishing domestic , regional , and global standards is not easy , but absolutely necessary . • accelerate eligibility for patenting residency rights and citizenship . trained doctors should not be the motor of taxicabs .
unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” brexit campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to around one-quarter of voters . fillon , for his part , can probably muster the same degree of support , possibly skim votes from le pen , given that some 8 % of the prime voters described as his national front ’s national front backers . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . its grand coalition of the old french far-right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive at all unannounced or defy expectations , as has happened in the united kingdom and the united kingdom . headed into the election campaign , fillon may be running on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second-round debates when he suggested that he favors forming european governments .
for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country with the greatest moral authority , outside of the pope . the state media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and islamic platform as guilty parties beyond adamowicz ’s murder will only undermine pis . generations of poles have joined with polish charities ’s fundraising drives . kaczyński has been working repeatedly to demonstrate his impulsiveness . he pursues power , without reflection on the consequences of his actions .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you another to nothing . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for each $ 0.50 for every $ 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , the cost can be shockingly high . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the laborers who made them there ? appalling wages are only the beginning .
when xi first unveiled his own slogan after being chosen as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in straightforward , accessible yet nonetheless generic terms : “ china ’s people dream of living the same way life , ” in official political branding . china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , unabashedly frightened of not showing enough loyalty and respect for the new party boss of the people , hastily hijacked the slogan ; the “ china dream ” has replaced the “ one china model ” in official political branding . whatever the new administration issues , they are marketed as part of its ambitious effort to force the “ china dream ” to come true . sadly , china ’s propagandists , celebrating as censors , have a perverse ability to discredit anything they try to brand . xi has said little about the “ china dream ” since – and his silence has created significant trouble .
even in animals whose genes are more readily studied , and much better grasped , such as drosophila , the tiny fruit fly , does not present any simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait . the eu has a wide variety of genes influencing each characteristic . fruit fly genes are also shockingly similar to ours , because they are among those of most other entities . indeed , they can not , for a variety of different kinds of genetic experimentation on humans is impossible . moreover , even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash from the opaque sources that are flowing into cambodia ’s casinos , brazil ’s state-owned banks , and the real-estate market . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that the firms in which they invest are engaged in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risk . gone are the days when powerful esg performance was the handsome bonus of investors . investment decisions at emerging-market funds thus increasingly run counter to rigorous esg screenings , screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of getting passing . cambodia is currently stripped of its natural-resource assets , including timber , sullivan , and sand , for its private gain .
simply put , talk about “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines , and here there wo n’t be any return . in the wake of world war ii , european countries aligned their national interests with each other . but efforts to establish political unity through a joint army failed ukraine in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was the key to european integration . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical gains of peace and prosperity on the part of britain . ” while the brics were particularly open-minded about the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic concerns .
from the perspective of fundamental values , there is such a thing as the west . the us has found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary who is helping to integrate into the united states . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument to hold it against the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar , and rejoice at the fact that the euro is “ strong ” and the us dollar is “ soft . ” this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who hold beliefs about the values of the enlightenment and the constitution of liberty .
most of the pis , for its part , may be hoping for the eu , with some grand coalition of countries ( for example , those ruled by the social democrats ) proposing another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states elect to avoid escalation of the confrontation with poland . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for a majority of government in poland . he is only kaczyński , the “ useful idiot ” ” ” in his effort to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against pis is the punishment that kaczyński deserves . perhaps he will replace poland as a widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski .
i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now the eu is again in the irish stew . so the problem lies with iranians . renegotiating the treaty is off the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . but it is hard to see a way out that offers a second referendum .
but experiences around the world suggest that this is a risky outlook , too . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were banks healthy , the process of deleveraging and the associated loss of wealth implies that , more often than not , economies are weak . and a weak economy implies more bank losses .
yet , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force for un , nato or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself primarily as a military power . for now , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s key foreign-policy priorities seem to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors – from which immediate security risks beget most hand in passing . at the same time , they are eager to develop more “ networked ” domestic and european foreign policies that perspective the actions and potential contributions of non-state actors . german policymakers continue to believe that political-economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . this , in turn , would be a wise choice , no less than a necessity .
if greece and other nations are to secure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will have to find ways to prevent current economic activities from raising an already unsustainable environmental burden . the mediterranean region has a uniquely breathtaking , breathtaking natural capital being one of its greatest assets – a reason that over 200 million tourists flock to the region each year , fodder for the region ’s economies . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as precious endowments that must be managed wisely . of course , surplus countries can often fill in the gap through global trade , so long as they can pay for badly needed imports . over-exploited resources or not carefully managed , inevitable saps the region ’s economic strength .
ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families , from elementary school to university , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have multiple autonomy . she favors engagement policies and the six-party talks , so as to resolve nuclear-related troubles . ms. park once committed to providing working-class families ’ loans from elementary school to university years , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have multiple autonomy . park , for her part , will ultimately depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her figure along these lines . come a presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters will pick a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue .
and that growth requires greater public investment in infrastructure , as well as in human capital . up-front gradualism must be the name of the game . income will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . a fiscal compact like the one endorsed recently has some appeal to anchor expectations of future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . and adjustment needs to be wedded to a growth strategy that is sustainable .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation will generate enough private-sector confidence that the gains in spending cuts by households and firms will more than compensate for lower-cost spending by governments . the imf believes that the current fiscal plans will discourage us economic growth . what the oecd has done , however , is the caucasus governments not to consolidate too quickly in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want the american people to grow and buy more of their exports . second , the international monetary fund , under the g20 ’s “ mutual assessment process , ” has hinted that the united states has slashed its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than it had envisaged , over $ 400 billion in additional cuts every year .
for most of humanity , though life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was , rather , a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . totalitarian pressure did , indeed , form exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , the people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same with andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their top values with references to , and in the language of , lying humanism . this is to be the reason why postcommunist societies show no nobility or incorrigibility that severely contrasts with the west . i admit that i see the legacy of communism with more skepticism .
under kim , the bank has propagated the simplistic idea that fossil-fuel companies are invariably damaging , coal must be forbidden , and “ climate aids ” is the solution . at the same time , the evidence shows that there are far more effective direct policies to address the problem . the world bank ’s climate target is also at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the un asked almost ten million people worldwide to list their own priorities , it emphasizes better education and health care , fewer corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . globally , global warming has emerged last out of 16 issues .
trump carries on about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions amount to 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of america ’s levels . consider the most recent figures for the year 2014 from the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy statistics . the world ’s co2 emissions from the us energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per person in the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s emissions were almost four times that level , 16.2 billion extra person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump also bemoans america ’s levies on the green-energy climate fund ( and , in the name of some reason , sneers as well ) . he complains that america has already given up more than $ 1 billion without explaining to the americans , and the world that $ 1 billion is a contribution of $ 3.08 per american .
sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the un secretary general is able to wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . what hard power the un has had needs to be pleaded and borrowed from member states . as one wag has put it , “ we have met the un , and it is us ! and when it is impossible to agree on any course of action , it is difficult for the organization to operate . true , un secretary general ban ki moon can make speeches , convening sessions and suggesting actions but his role makes them more secretary than general .
perhaps for this reason , talk about a meeting in astana has been among the presidents of russia and france , america ’s foreign minister , and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . a meeting of presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum and must lead to a genuine , sustainable success . that prospect holds both excellent opportunities and serious risks . otherwise , it will seem that no amount of negotiation can help establish the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining key restraint preventing the two sides from trying again to reach a military resolution . there is some reason that no such meeting has held up in the 20 years of conflict .
true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , have illegally established constituent assembly while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but venezuela is not just a political issue ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . if the problem were simply the matter of gross violations by america ’s states ’ organization of democracy , the country ’s health-care charter has collapsed , and the level of violence and contagious diseases are now virtually out of control . at the same time , governments in both the us and europe are finding themselves in crude , uncharted waters . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the us health-care system has crumbled and violence and contagious diseases are now practically beyond their control .
similarly , omar abdullah , india ’s youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older counterparts of rajasthan and kerala ’s kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy , has opened facebook accounts just as badly . but the pace at which the political-military interfaces produces social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee , has announced his opening of facebook ’s account to receive and react from public ’s questions . brought by former western prime minister bengal mamata banerjee , the running down on a nationally minded , universally read web site , which traditional media outlets mine every day . from bjp ’s wholesale embrace of twitter aside , modi ’s ’s ’s network allies include the party ’s own parliamentary chief leader , sushma swaraj , as well as a coterie of experts – prominent indian politicians from any party have leapt in .
related to this is the fact that nowadays , economic development depends less on a particular country , and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the adverse effects of those being boosted by globalization . so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrolled force of globalization , its future lies in foreign hands . so the world needs in its regions to facilitate integration based on universal economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and most of all common will to correct the rules of the game in accordance with the region ’s entire natural interests . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , the poorer and more developed countries must allow some means of protecting their new industries . only such equal cooperation can secure a robust political foundation for integration .
is it fair to expect egyptians to continue paying for their past repression and impoverishment at mubarak ’s hands and his henchmen ? when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with weapons paid for with borrowing money . the type of regime that mubarak ran was ran was evident for many years . a prudent lender was meant to consider such facts before making a loan . given that this money had clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his sacrifices , who holds himself accountable ?
thus , claims of an alternative strategy have to be put at a somewhat lower level , say the initial exchange rate that might be chosen to make east germany into lower-wage countries . perhaps those are en vogue in korea as it thinks about eventual unification ; but even there it will be hard to accomplish when the time comes . at a more depreciated conversion rate , the us would simply have a more rapid wage increase . one alternative strategy , slightly conceivable , is that western germany would have foreseen the experiment ’s failure before embarking on it . even that is a dream , having faced a combination of high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially each year relative to west germany .
china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public investment is high enough ; broadening it further would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is no safer . new manufacturing firms , with $ 3.6 million starting just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks partly to a new , more streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption while expanding market access and funding for smaller firms .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police a single market . but it is also necessary that the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . it would be unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law and views of a respected international body . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively working to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europeans oppose their aggression from the kremlin , it is vital that poland and hungary adhere to such groups on their fundamental values and principles .
but the majority of researchers , at least , are not driven by such interests , either . the overwhelming majority of those reining in solar-powered solar geoengineering or advocating for inclusion in climate-policy debates also encourage much stronger action to cut emissions . still , it ’s all very likely that large fossil-fuel companies , from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions , will ultimately use discussion of geoengineering to fight limits on emissions . many fear , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that risk is not an adequate reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering .
it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its own sudden disappearance 15 years ago this month , has left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of us unilateralism . for the us , instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of its own unilateralism . if a great power forgets that or loses its ability to act accordingly , it begins to decline . national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . to achieve that , america would have had to subservient its power to the goal of presenting the new order much as it had done at the close of world war ii in 1945 .
the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference – hosted by the abu dhabi national oil company – to attend barkindo as much as numerous african ministers of energy and oil-industry leaders worldwide – provides an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . working with other stakeholders , sustainable , and just transition campaigners can achieve something more equally : allowing carbon power to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse effects of oil-backed development in the twentieth century . for such strategies to work , but the fact is that the world ’s oil industry needs to get at the board . that means engaging sino-centric asia with african governments to shape how best to support national-level agendas for development and diversification . for their part , the industrialized economies need to do more to rally support for african petroleum industries , ensuring that the negative impact on oil output is mitigated .
economic development in the gaza strip was limited under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in south part of mandatory palestine to later became israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor force depended on a un relief administration building and maintaining local refugee camps . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees , living in difficult conditions in scores of refugee camps , and depended largely on labor in israel . nevertheless , though one-third of the west bank was closed to the palestinians to make room for just a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population were refugees , many of whom own land owned and abundant jobs are available . the 1967 war put all of palestine mandatory ( as with sinai and the golan ) beneath israeli military occupation .
when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , president of the us federal reserve bank , and president of the new york fed , respectively . all three had published protracted memoirs explaining why they did , and did not do so inevitably , with a certain degree of self-justifying in every case . now , one decade later , the three have co-authored what might be described as version 2.1 of that episode ’s history . in fact , the second set of history tends to be written by keynesian people themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him tenaciously , because “ i propose writing that history . ”
for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms in the 1980s were spurred , in part , by gdp growth under the non-agricultural sector , a result of policies directed against stimulating township and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed de-industrialization in bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) ’ chronic loss-making and excess property investment – in order to undertake institutional reforms that stimulated growth in a more dynamic sector , thereby offsetting the soes ’ declining return to capital . in that sense , east asian economies embraced a process of de-creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby economic structure was continually revolutionized from within . the goal was not to address the challenges they faced directly , but to induce new , more efficient interventions that helped turn debt into assets and maximize use of the economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that made it easier to prove – and even spur , replacing the old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they expedited that process .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo under a unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has hardly stirred high interest rates , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . similarly , much of the world is now protesting on the behalf of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , is not grasping our attention because it is stable and flourishing economically . this seeming double standard can be explained partly by a feeling of guilt : for the most part , the west embraced kosovo in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . that neglect is not only wrongheaded , but it may also prove dangerous .
a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : the reduction of the power bestowed in the uk on un-elected special consultants or “ spads ” to become dominant figures within all departments of government . whatever the may be , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad , genuine support . many are now eagerly offering their views on whether the uk should look again at the “ single norway model ” of relations with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the eu single market . during my 17-month book , i have become convinced that a spads ’ excessive power , and haughty approach , undermines the uk ’s ’s excellent civil-service , as well as its elected and nominated ministers . may ’s two lead spads , corona hillary clinton , and nick timothy geithner have taken this danger to worrying levels .
setting aside concerns about nanomaterials ’ toxicity , tentative results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks far less than comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . indeed , many of the ingredients used to correlate with nanomaterials are currently known to introduce risks related to human health . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . while trying to block the development of nanomaterial-inspired technology in the us would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible evolution in such technologies demands vigilance and social commitment . it would be naive to imagine if nanotechnology develops with no risk to our health and environment .
globally , human trafficking generates an average annual gain of $ 150 billion , of which about two-thirds ( one in $ 99 trillion ) come from coerced sexual exploitation . today , almost 4.5 billion people have internet access , and around one in three internet users are below the age of 18 . a unregulated online world thus has fertile ground to reaping vast gains from child sexual trafficking . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to empower child sex-crime trafficking even further , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to combat this appalling crime . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a smartphone smartphone , with a high-speed online connection to enter into a business .
and it should not come as a surprise that markets have tested european political leaders ’ willingness to remain quiet where monetary matters are concerned . recent interventions and aid from america and japan have shown that europeans are here to stay , and that the markets are confident in their success . at the same time , the euro has had a hard but promising start . it should n’t come as a surprise that the euro began to slide against the dollar , considering the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . we all owe such them to it .
now that internet fever has abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but that view runs as much a half-truth as the prior notion that a boom would last indefinitely , because the web economy has constructed new fundamentals . people have learned that it is paying to buy dips , and are not weaned from the habit until it stops paying . what should now be clear is that so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not given independently . indeed , the internet boom-and-bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about the financial sector .
the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to cause harm , and one ’s exposure to it . the principle even applies to foods : large amounts of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . palo alto , since early development of the sixteenth-century science , her guiding principle has been that , by definition , “ a dose makes the poison . ” the right aspirin is may be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming all can be lethal . it is a rule that applies to the medicines that are used by patients in the world for many billions each day .
the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly referred : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , fezzan ( south ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . because of libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . albania , mongolia , thailand , and india have successfully passed more complicated tests and offer some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . renaica is qaddafi-free , the tripolitania is not , and fezzan has not fully join the revolution . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to shift from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and robust tribal identity .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposal may entail too big a stimulus . they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp in 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-term government debt , all of which the ecb should purchase . ecb quantitative easing alone , they argue , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a crucial question : how does quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a pure instrument of monetary policy that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary , desirable fiscal consolidation .
never mind that eye-popping growth projections under representative paul ryan concerning the budget plan are utterly unbelievable ; these projections matter politically , because without them the full sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would become readily apparent . confronting and brinkmanship has become the new watchwords of american politics , even as america ’s governors of the legal capacity to bail out their debts are lines in line , owing to the tea party leadership of ideological rigidity . likewise , standard & poor ’s have gotten some justified criticism of the analysis behind his recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there was very little economic news that might explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of the us political situation is on target : by creating dysfunctional paralysis at government districts , the tea party showed its willingness to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and to ensure significantly slower growth . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become far nastier .
on trade , trump and xi agreed on a 100-day plan for discussion on reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the us accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement through the creation of the us-china comprehensive dialogue , comprising four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security ; economic issues ; law enforcement and cybersecurity ; and social and cultural issues . both seemed to recognize the need for a stable us-china relationship to enable it to focus on its respective challenges . an understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sobering acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face . trump , for his part , accepted xi ’s invitation early to visit china .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , say , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not take priority over any us strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni gulf region . both uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military services for adult males . and kuwait reconsiders conscription in jordan in footsteps by reintroducing conscription that are already there in most sunni states ( as well as iran ) . that strategy must center on federalism , which is a success in politics . were the emergence of federalism in somalia , for example , where the north-south rift has emerged , this probably will not end up being a failed state .
netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fears and complexes of a wide variety of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , the orthodox jews , the majority of traditionalist israelis , and the religious settlers . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fears and complexes of a broad range of outstanding voters , including russian immigrants , the orthodox jews , the majority of traditionalist israelis , and the religious settlers . the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not strict political affairs ; these are an expression of the ongoing kulturkampf , in an ethnically kaleidoscopic company . the left ’s yearning for peace is perceived as naïve , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , the unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . israeli parliamentary elections are , in some ways , an inner affair .
according to mgi research , more than 100 million jobs could be generated over the next 10-15 years as health-care and educational needs grow . furthermore , among the new jobs that will be generated are many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally prospered . so far , it remains far from clear how automation will affect women ’s quality of employment . the success of women in e-commerce attests to the strength of digital technologies to level the economic playing field ; benefiting individual women , their communities , and their societies ; and the global economy . but there is little doubt that protecting – and even jailing , women ’s job front and income prospects will require upgrading their skills in order to capitalize on the new , changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution .
indeed , russia ’s links with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and became rooted in a cherished tradition of tolerance . after loyalty was assured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . russia conquered muslim territories in volga-ural region , as well as caucasus and central asia , and brutally suppressed any opposition . with some short-lived exception , russia ’s imperial rule has not supported orthodox evangelism . until the libyan 19th century , sedentary muslim elites co-oriented toward the imperial aristocracy , just as in the twentieth century was absorbed by national communist elites into soviet nomenclatura .
first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . the trigger was the proposed extradition law , which many feared would expand the mainland ’s reach to hong kong ’s judicial system . in fact , such a plan would have to do at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . hong kong has endured an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstration ( occasional episodes of violence have drawn disproportionate media attention ) .
in order to address such bias head on and provide clarity about fund allocations , the egf should focus its scarce money on two simple , more efficient labor-market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance . a allowance of mobility could offer these moves a lump-sum payment to two years ’ gross pay at prior work , or four months ’ pay for cross-border moves . here , the downside of such a focused approach is equally obvious : the margin of eu choice about how egf funds should be spent in their home countries would be minimal . here , the very simplicity of such a scheme will probably ensure high visibility and a reasonable take-up rate . here , here , wage insurance could offer to workers , whose pay is cut after displacement damages for up to two years , amounting to half the difference between old and new pay .
to be sure , asia ’s middle class ’s rise is not the only change that we should expect . but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for more than two-thirds of the global middle class by 2030 . in other words , it will displace asia not only in the west , but also in other emerging regions . on average , asia ’s share has risen to 28 % ( after the inclusion of japan ) . that , in turn , is the true commercial opportunity .
a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with the financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as the ultimate defeat of european integration – particularly after a laborious effort made on hold together the monetary union and , with italy , the european dream . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in light of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and following the marches in france and across the continent rekindled a long-vaunted sense of european solidarity . populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , gain electoral traction . some , like france ’s debacles in italy ’s national front , oppose their country with eurozone membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . still , the call that such new parties pose to europe could prove particularly disruptive .
europe ’s governments have repeated the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” ” ” but they appear to have lacked a comprehensive strategy to translating that into coherent policymaking . indeed , with europeans thinking about reforming global governance , they are limiting themselves to numbers of seats , and voting heavyweights in international bodies . now european governments have only grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in their multilateral bodies , recognize that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . but , while deliberation is looking at how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there is little vision beyond this . taken together , all of these weaknesses cast serious doubts on the eu ’s claims to lead the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance .
são paulo – a decades-old legal fight between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s overlooks a picture . but , more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , a court-ordered restitution would also mark an officially end to brazil ’s seemingly never-ending war over hyperinflation . in december , the lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court , with its request to ratify a settlement reached with the banks . if the court approves the deal , settlements would have placed billions of refraining from the pockets of savers . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency .
nowadays , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industries . illiteracy , restricted land ownership , and agency constraints and mobility all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . there have been a dramatic impact on social and economic progress in the region . but this has not translated into more state control of finance . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less farm-related money than men do .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 is to weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect , which has garnered little focus : they reduce capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which causes the relative decline in labor demand . add to that the unemployment problem very likely to worsen ; it certainly does not be mitigating it . one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . even if an job subsidy were offered only for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time of work . so , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 to buy property , and the remainder in allowing a peripheral , job-creation facility to be particularly powerful in economies with flexible labor markets that allow short-term hiring .
what is clear is that the experience of countries that undertook the treaty was not particularly positive unless those nations enjoyed high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is cut off from an equally anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is an over-wrought , confusing , and complex process – in short , inimical to innovations that might well benefit the world ’s poor . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary the protocol of responsibility and remedy to the cartagena protocol – yet another counter-genetic-engineering standoff that accomplishes little except to terrify potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific , antagena protocol on biological safety , toward the cbd .
when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar years – the antiinternational right moved to fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . at the center – beleaguered by the antiglobal reactions of the left and right – the liberal trading elite viewed products of economic opening or globalization as wholly productive . rather than falling into the united states of two part of the divide between left and right , there was consequently a triple divide , one between anti-globalization conservatives , the liberals ’ pro-globalization liberals , and the re-distributionist leftists . “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo chamber of globalization debates today , “ a certain situation of mesa capitalistically disorganized economies , in which the superior culture does not emerge victorious but rather loses in an existential struggle with sub-national cultures . ” for much of the post-1945 era , these divisions vanished as right , and left the struggle for redistribution within national economies .
but the veil that exists over how that omnipotent party makes important decisions rises rather than the volume of unique behind-the-scenes materials surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 is published earlier this month . the materials included in that book , to which i brought out of china and decide to make public , consist of hundreds of documents , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s republic ’s most important leaders deliberated on how to manage tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on telephone conversations among leaders ; and dispatches from the police and the military . taken as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s modus operandi . taken together , these documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s modus operandi . as witness and participant in tiananmen events , and , as someone with access to a historic archive , i feel it is my obligation to publish this record of choices that lay behind what took place .
in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like any other communist state , was a dreary , repressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity was stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by rolling stones and other western groups were banned . a local rock band named the plastic people of space , performing in english , was arrested at the end of the 1970s for having been organized by peace disturbance . rock and fissures were deemed a noxious form of capitalist decadence . and yet the records were smuggled in slovakia and other eastern european countries , where young rock fans were treasured , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become poland ’s president .
there is , of course , an appealing rationale for saying that governments should need to balance their budgets merely like the rest of us ; that , unfortunately , this is not all that simple . debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of the would-be “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . governments typically carry myriad continuing budget obligations associated with basic services like homeland defense , infrastructure projects , education and health care , not to mention pensioners . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece confront massive social and economic displacement at a time when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows suddenly dry . no government can just walk away from these responsibilities overnight .
president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan has coined a axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of shiites ” and the resulting “ sunni shia divide , ” is alleged to be creating ever widening chasm in the region . ironically , that perception brings israel some of the rather unlikely partners in the region . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the current chaos . while that perception may persuade at first glance , it ultimately comes from generalizations that reveal more about its proponents than about actual reality on the ground .
making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that a renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . companies can not keep producing oil , gas , or internal combustion engines , while moving gradually toward cleaner technology ; they need a clean break . as matters stand , for example , coal , oil , and gas could still provide 85 % of our primary energy supply by 2040 , down to just slightly from the 90 % today . it does n’t help that financial institutions in china have funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green-” financing to coal-linked projects in the first half of this year . to complete a transition away from fossil fuels will require drilling off within the global economy .
indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors the state , compelling insurgents to keep their demands realistic . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at the meetings in norway and cuba . furthermore , with america ’s backing , colombia ’s armed forces have become more powerful , owing to modernizing military facilities and doctrine , increasing troop levels , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly expensive to police the rebels . the agenda will focus on ending conflicts without endless discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire questions .
the most positive one can say about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . but it is also another area where obama has set a bar high during his two terms in office . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact as do trade links with china and other major american partners . yes , this is all volatile data sets , because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . the administration did impose tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines ; but those are minuscule relative to the size of the us economy .
perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories have been passed on . all of these books are bedeviled by the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japan arrived after defeating the czar of the army in 1905 . the chinese picked up many of the modern western ideas of the japanese again . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , said that “ jews govern the world by proxy . ” but southeast asians are not immune to this type of nonsense either .
german chancellor angela merkel ’s own constituents hate bailouts because they know that it is they who will bailing out them . those running a strong emergency funding mechanism will have to be strongly held accountable . they will have to answer for the strong european parliament . they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration . it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties .
new york – striving to revitalize the world economy , while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis , has raised a knotty question : are giving us the right “ signals ” ” ” ” ” ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on heightened significance : what we measure affects what we do . if we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , raise gdp ) may actually do to deteriorate in the area of living standards . we may also be confronted with false choices , reading trade-offs between output , and protecting the environment that do n’t exist . by contrast , better measure of economic performance may show that steps taken to make the environment better are good for an economy .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? ” we learn at introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . banknotes are mere pieces of paper , with so much attached to them . but why are we now accepting that ? how do i know that i can trust that is worth what is said to be ?
with the refugee crisis turning schengen into an existential threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . when it was first created in 1985 , schengen included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , spain , and west germany ) . eu membership has since ballooned to encompass 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . to be sure , the idea of abolishing frontiers within europe holds great symbolic importance and appeal . but sometimes even sacred cows have to be slaughtered .
no doubt , putin is now very likely to behave like a peacemaker . he is not interested in renewing the power of his kremlin ’s aides . he also realizes that big business has become crucially important for russia ’s modernization . simply put , he wants the oligarchs to stick to their diverse sphere of activity , leaving politics to it . on the contrary , the problem wo n’t go away .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk creates an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically like metaphorically ) , and to mobilize the apparatchiks of nationalism . had he woken up one morning deciding to impose heavy import tariffs on european automobiles , things could have gotten nasty , very fast . moreover , with europe ’s external environment becoming more dangerous . for once , trump seems genuinely to believe that german-made cars in the streets of new york are posing a threat to america ’s own national security . though the world ’s attention currently places the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not go unnoticed .
indeed , greater competitive pressure can heighten banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . it can also erode the charter value of institutions . already , there is a trade-off between competition and stability . it can also erode the charter ’s value of institutions . a thin peripheral bank and limited liability does n’t have much to lose and will usually tend to gamble , a tendency aggravated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies .
most live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . preventable diseases have already eradicated smallpox , and dramatically reduced child deaths and diseases linked to measles , diphtheria , diphtheria , and tetanus . yet , sad , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia , which can be prevented by a vaccine . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low - and middle-income country to die before reaching age five . fortunately , there is , fortunately , a world in need of action .
as the pioneering baby psychologist jean piaget has shown , the children in early stages of development go through the stage of egocentrism : they naturally concentrate on one ’s own needs and do not consider regulations . and , because the child believes that everyone operates under his own particular definitions of right and wrong , one can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . rather than admit to breaking the rules , they lie in reconciling inconsistency . to a child ’s mind , he is not wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . a baby might snatch another child ’s toy , breaks it , and then deny it having done so .
what , then , can india do to close the gap ? its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just stunning . it is this gap , more than anything else that sets the two economies apart . over the last five years , china multiplied its highway system five-fold . unless your products can not reach the global economy , you can not conquer it .
critical thought is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public debate . the question is whether the brand of politics threatening liberal democracy , too , can be repackaged to salvage it . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians make ready fire on those who feel ignored . but , because these politicians are so appealing to so many , no fewer than easily swayed voters must be scrutinized . nowadays , there are two types of populists : exploitative and enlightened .
the most recent feature that stands out in this era of historically sluggish productivity growth has been weak demand . the crisis has heightened uncertainty about the future course of consumer and investment demand . for example , the mgi survey , conducted in the past year , found that 47 % of firms increase their investment budgets so that they do so because of increased demand or diminished demand expectations . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . across industries , the slow pace of demand recovery following the financial crisis has been key to holding back investment .
herein lies a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from the usual rules of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free-markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ greater ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother about how markets function . still , facts have themselves been struck by the facts . they view economics as an ideological battleground , where every view can be entertained without confronted with logic , much less with facts .
avoiding that outcome will require america ’s political leaders to constrain increased entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income individual entities . health care and social security have already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to exceed double by 2040 . with no change in course , the programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted through the 2030s . for example , to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in poverty in old age , welfare needs higher minimum benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time . while social security and medicare remains important to ensure retirement wellbeing , their role must be updated to accommodate today ’s needs .
new york – president george w. bush was right to called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections “ a victory for [ his ] people . ” but , even as he uttered these words , his administration worked behind the scenes to categorize the will of pakistan ’s people by trying to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up the election of ’s greatest loser , us president pervez musharraf . in the polls , millions of pakistanis had delivered a clear message . collectively , they had voted against musharraf and religious extremists in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . bush is playing a perilous game , at risk of disintegrating pakistan ’s political process on the side of his own legacy .
moreover , prolonged treatments are not the same as cures , and no public-health tool ( other than clean drinking water ) has ever equated the preventive power of a vaccine . hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus ; it is also a world in which we have drugs that can not be used in the first place . it mutates fast within individual and across geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months or even years later . it evades the un immune system , which is so the body ’s natural ability to combat or clear it is restricted . in fact , three of the world ’s five hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapies .
but it is helpful to remember that yale university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and socio-cultural role ever since time immemorial ; yet what in previous aristotle initially looked to many like an ongoing conflict of interest often comes into view as a confluence of purpose . according to this argument , academic researchers should either publish their research openly , or leave university before it advances commercial interests . similarly , us universities that employ them should leave product development to existing companies . for example , during the late 19 th century bc , as american universities at the heart of academia ’s mission , charges about forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that research ’s demands would render their pedagogical commitments impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout its crisis-prone era , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned by the tension between what it can do and what it is allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union that has the capacity to provide unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute forbids government bailouts . moreover , it has issued loans to the us banking sector , most recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks at € 489 billion ( $ 254 billion ) . nonetheless , the ecb has provided massive amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the downward pressure on sovereign debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has bought up government bonds , worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets , under its bond-buying program .
the bush administration did not see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they arrived , then minimized their significance and , finally , panicky . excessive leveraging , combined with bad loans and riskier derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze up . america would face such problems even if it could not meet the financial crisis simultaneously . after all , when the banks ca n’t know their own balance sheets , they are n’t about to trust others to do so ’ job ; ampnbsp ; at the same time , america ’s economy was supercharged with excessive leveraging ;
aware of these benefits , myanmar has put its education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority – to help improve inclusivity – is already underway . vietnam and south korea are offering inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their education systems across a generation . for example , the government currently is working to encourage instruction in more local-level languages , more than 100 speak in myanmar – rural areas – in rural areas . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee sir ju-ho noted during our visit , instructing young people to think critically , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge economy .
in that case , pareto optimality is not a social optimal thing . so far , the eu policies that exacerbate competition , whether in terms of trade , labor markets , or domestic production , may prove socially destructive and politically explosive . but what if economists ’ compensation assumed in theory does not do in practice ? after all , what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution , or regional , industrial and educational subsidies that might compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? even so , this highlights yet another rationale for the inability of us economic policy since its 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , combined with the rebalancing of power between the global north and south , has made developing countries and a growing number of companies within them , key global economic players . but cross-border investment by countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” faster-exporting states . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for defending foreign investment . once upon a time , global fdi flowed from only a handful of sources : the region ’s traditionally wealthy states , north america , brazil , and japan . such shifts have increased the complexity of the international investment regime , and they should serve to strengthen efforts at developing a more effective investment-protection framework .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to identical concerns , because today ’s globalization is mostly the result of new information technology . computers and the internet have made information available almost costlessly , doing business across culture and even poverty . the worry now is that information technology is on the flex of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at far more speed than it did in the past . at the same time , the resulting changes wo n’t all be welcome in economic terms . hockey stick curves are at times experienced in nature .
copenhagen – amid a rising wave of concern about climate change , numerous countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and france – passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing , or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . as part of this effort , republicans ’ current effort in the american people ’s congress to roll back america ’s effort to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this debate . what many contend is that knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . focusing was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity or 1 % of our co2 emissions . but it is worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming .
the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that the trade-gains derived from latin american firms of all small-scale regional trade deals have been meager . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access both across and across markets . this suggests that , for the uk , mega-regional trade deals – which give uk firms access to multiple markets but signifies lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does – are the best way forward . after all , it is this approach that makes it possible for uk firms to position themselves in well-developed , integrated supply chains serving much larger markets than those that grant a bilateral deal . after all , it is this approach that makes it possible for uk firms to position themselves in well-developed , integrated supply chains serve much larger markets than those that give them access to the bilateral deal .
against that backdrop , one can evaluate current growth patterns in the global economy , as well as in its diverse parts . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the level needed to revive and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in the over-indebted countries . by contrast , income inequality that is not too extreme and that does not arise from corruption or privileged access to markets is understood and accepted . providing high-quality basic services like education and healthcare is viewed as crucial to ensuring equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on loss of political and social cohesion , and ultimately on the losing side of this strategy .
for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs clear even before even the emergence of extremist parties . one criterion that appears to be universally accepted is parties of use , encouragement , or at least condoning the violence – as evidently the case with golden dawn a role in assaults against migrants in athens . there is a less consensus in favor of parties that incite hatred , and are committed to destroying core democratic principles – especially because many of europe ’s extremist parties are going out of their way to emphasize opposition to democracy ; on the contrary , they fight for “ communal ” people . if the rule of law is to have any purpose at all , democratic self-defense may not seem ad hoc or arbitrary . thus , the criteria of bans should be delusional in advance .
the other part of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people were subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and reacted to it . elected officials clearly need to find the answers that come with high unemployment and declining living standards . in both the government or the entire system , they will have to be overturned at will . so , for them , patriotism means being harder-headed for protecting the national interest and embracing more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than being jet-setting fat cats . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable .
finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar has been just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 trillion to cn ¥ 6.35 – far below double-digit declines in the us japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . while official us data show the overall price of import prices tumbling by 11 % in the 12 months through august , this is attributable almost entirely to lower energy costs . so , on the overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it competes . more importantly , the renminbi ’s declining and other currencies over the past year have had very little impact on us import prices , because chinese and other exporters are selling their goods in dollars and not being adjusted when the exchange rate moves . more importantly , wealth and consumption in the us are firmly related to real-estate values , not to equity values .
in all cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . so , while we can expect a multi-year rebalancing process and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it takes depends on the political choices and speed of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer to last , owing to more missing recovery components in these countries ’ economies . still , many developing countries are spending a lot of time in steady , no-growth rebalance and then moving to a more positive one . here , too , there is nothing automatic about this .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with its trade deficit forecasts close to $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . finally , the eu should work to francoize belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy changes before lukashenka sets the foundations of quick developments once he is gone . like spain in the dictator of the last few years , a political opening is unlikely . belarus can not borrow enough to cover that .
south koreans , for example , now enjoy a standard of living similar to that in the european union that makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have been growing significantly faster since 2005 , while mexico ’s gdp has been slightly disappointing , and egypt ’s was even more so . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s level of wealth has not come nowhere near that of south korea , while still vastly wealthier than the rest of the n-11 , some remain among the world ’s poorest countries . collectively , the n-11 comprises some $ 1.5 trillion people , with its current nominal gdp going about $ 6.5 trillion . after all , these countries have extraordinarily diversified their economic and social environments and very different levels of wealth .
turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to its betrayal of the kurds that led the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests . for the first time since world war ii , europe is finding itself neither a notable ally nor a partner . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars , and the betrayal of allies represents a new norm for world order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to a demagogic attack on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s open support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians are periodically mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked .
leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking labor force is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he forecast that labor shortages are creating a cap that restricts yearly gdp growth to 1.8 % in years between now and 2030 and mere 1.3 % between then and 2050 . dismantling some 70 million jobs and therefore taxpayers in europe ’s economy would obviously have been disastrous . comparatively few europeans seem to contest their moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria gone through civil war or political oppression elsewhere . looking ahead , whether or not public sentiment changes through the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed with a stronger impact .
and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – a gap that must be addressed now . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people in developing countries by 2050 . not since 1951 has international refugee standards been receiving so much attention . at a recent count , there were some 258 million migrants globally , with an estimated 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) . these numbers would be dwarfed , if even the most modest climate-related predictions fall .
here , following my show of trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are not ( at least ) atheists in prison , either . lukyanivska incarceration , kyiv , said that there are no atheists in the foxhole . in this love and family season , the loneliness of one prison cell is almost unbearable . when , despite unbearable pain , you are challenged by you – including in your cell – for dozens of hours nonbreak-even breaking , and an authoritarian regime in the entire system of coercion , including its own media , tries to discredit and destruction you right up front and down , prague becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and accessible family , because – deprived even of access to a trusted priest , there is n’t another in which to confide one ’s myriad worries and our hopes .
and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance council to count unsubsidized lending as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable it to meet its oda targets . this reverses a trend over the past few decades , toward grant-based funding , particularly on core education . but , beyond aid reductions , donors may also be making it more difficult for borrowing countries to repay the aid money they owe ( this is not limited to education loans ) . loan buy-downs can help keep education sector “ competitive , ” and could prove to be a mechanism to leverage larger funds for education for which capital-strapped countries might not be willing to borrow otherwise . but , education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in the conduct of un aid .
let us draw the right lesson from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best instrument for preventing conflict in the long run . moreover , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those who are left behind , thus mitigating grievances . have made greater sense for countries ’s most glaring inequalities in terms of access to water , shelter , or jobs , this stock may not choose the violence as an instrument of change . ultimately , increased economic activity that generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in an environment of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie than it is to shrink . it is no accident that much of kenya , like continuing violence , is experiencing in the slums of its big cities .
water supplies are also highly variable across regions and , within countries , with floods and droughts running at irregular times . one new factor that influencing water supplies is the rise in global temperature . while we are not certain about the precise effects , many researchers seem to believe that overall yearly precipitation will rise , but that its seasonality and the frequency of extremes can only increase . that would make it harder to use current sources of dams ’ existing supply infrastructure , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without big modifications . from the writings of the top high-tech commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline ad adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we see that anxiety about exhausting resource resources is not new .
but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq stemmed from an almost catastrophic decision to reform saddam 's army without working or retirement . qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen based on loyalty and ethnic affiliation rather than on any conception of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what can be the most humane of outcomes ) might be great . that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s later security problems . libya is fortunate is some ways to here . its oil sector appears relatively unaffected , and hence ought to contribute to the government 's revenues relatively soon .
even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , gains in privatization are often uncertain , at best . investment in communism in communism was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies in europe . even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , big state ( and many private ) firms often needed to break up , relocate , or shut down . even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , privatization 's gains are often uncertain , at best . the problem lies in the assumption of the value of most state-owned enterprises .
the new international initiative , dubbed the “ electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieving the mdgs , just as his “ sustainable energy for all ” initiative ( se4all ) and formally launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as debates have shown , these topics receive enhanced international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organization , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one of the world ’s preeminent and promotion . we have electrified more than four million households , through a focused effort late last year , an effort that featured prominently in discussions hosted by the un secretary-general for sustainable energy , and that drew interest rates from other developing countries . yet an estimated 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as are doing large numbers of people throughout the developing world .
nigeria ’s population could soar from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s gdp could grow from 18 million to 42 million by 2050 . high fertility rates stymie economic growth prospects , because , excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to power rapid income gains . at the same time , however , causation runs on the other way . high fertility rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes hoarding per capita reserves of physical and human capital at the pace required to power rapid income gains . the un sustainable development scenario projects that the world ’s population will soar from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 .
once north korea of europe under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level is now about 25 % that of germany . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and strengthening currency . italy now has the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its credit class , indicating that markets think the ratings agencies have slumped at the wheel . indeed , all the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there , and they are not there as long as ever . fast-forward to the us : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services .
the obama administration should hold firm on this through forthcoming rounds of negotiation and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur in order to ensure that the peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as north-south effort . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalized relations between nations and sudan . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – particularly egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also have to play a robust role . what is needed now is the political will – and not only in the us , to sustain this diplomacy . conversely , the us must stand ready to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country into war .
this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects the socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries through the establishment of joint-liability mechanisms . it is this de facto debt mutualization , which has prompted lenders to accept lower interest rates and merely the lower interest rates that allowed renzi , samaras , valls , and the other to distance himself from austerity policies . the new debt , however , is anything but a form of dope , reducing pressure to take painful action that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can put in place full policy borrowing and collectivize the costs , greece pursues the policy sooner , more quickly and at a greater margin than it would have had to bear the costs alone . what is remarkable is how matter-of-stress europe ’s transgressors succeed cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
in brief , javanese culture helps indonesia manage the many diverse voices that make a new round of democracy veering . and why , then , does n't the world take notice ? the story is as complex as indonesia 's on its own . one leading expert of indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia in its core javanese culture , particularly the culture of wayang 's religious tradition . according to anderson , " unlike the great religions of the near east " … the religion of wayang have no prophet , no message , no bible n't work anymore ; no redeemer has the unending variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae imply that wayang reflects the variegation of human life as the javanese … ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ”
the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain strict aversion to military interventions , and seek to protect its own strategic interests , including its own naval base in the syrian town of tartus . that stance has translated , most evidently , into repeated vetoes by un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . in this regard , the eu ’s most precious tools are its signing , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . participating with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point , the eu is critical to engage politically , economic , and energy collaboration . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions .
cairo – last week , ’s visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia brought about a total of 22 agreements , including the $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by a fast-growing population that is dependent on unaffordable subsidies , a situation that the jihadists are exploiting with much success . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish two red sea islands ceded to saudi arabia in 1950 . how did the country achieve that point ?
the security challenge that nigeria faced dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , to use the un ’s special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the “ safe schools ” initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign started online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka on the world book , in which he called on jonathan to “ bring back ” their pupils . nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online were soon translated into the organized action offline headed by former government minister olusewesili ( who spoke also behind at the world book day event ) and civil-society leaders , including lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . the protests have spread throughout nigeria , as have countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the international media have been paying rapt attention , reporting on protest , and sit-ins .
through bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost their claim to legitimacy and conjure fear and mistrust in much of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become much more wary of neighbors like ukraine . an immediate cost has been poland as a reversal of its defiance of the american anti-ballistic missile system . in early august , russia set a trap in south ossetia , with georgian foolishly walking into it . if the russians had used their “ peacekeeping ” force solely to protect south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing a precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would have done very little damage to their soft power , and the benefits could have exceeded the costs .
but , at the same time , a diaspora ’s potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin has documented , from the early stages of urban life , early millennia ago , business has usually interacted networks of co-ethnic merchants living among “ aliens . ” greeks , goenicians , trans-saharan merchants , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and the dutch and british eastern indian firms have organized much of world trade via such networks . though these alien traders have sometimes been politically powerful in their host countries , they have often been weak , and have faced discrimination . the economist avner galiif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at long distances when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably .
the impact on harley-davidson , for example , is to raise the cost by roughly $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) in the us . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could impose an additional $ 45 million on society . those tariffs raise the cost to us firms that use the metal as an input . when government policies diminish the money ’s profitability , or jeopardize the wellbeing of a company , it is just as reasonable that people running that businesses should respond as they see fit . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping in business , he will actually help all americans .
for more than two decades – a period characterized by chronic recessions and deflation – japan has retained its place as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . in fact , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public debate , urge scholars and business economists , and the general public to be more worried about keeping its fiscal deficit under control than about the effects of a negative demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” in the end of last year , japan ’s ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) , at the end of last year . but its selection of experts has reflected a clear bias toward the ministry of finance .
in fact , the big risk nowadays is that , with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data but moving further away from understanding biological complexity . the fundamental functioning units of all complicated living organisms , it should be remembered , are a cell , not a genes . admittedly , i believe that we can now say that , for those c. elegans , we say . what we need now are “ cell maps , ” and way cell cells talk to one another .
new york – in the spring of 1989 , china ’s great protest movement , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing on tiananmen square , appeared to be the anti-communist revolt that failed . just as the brutal crackdown on and following june 3-4 had been playing out , so did the triumph of political freedom in central europe – first in poland and hungary , followed by the fall of eastern germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , perhaps inadvertently and rather un-democratically , romania . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . in the coming two years , the soviet union , cracked by mikhail gorbachev ’s on the reforms , ultimately imploding . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no path to trim , roll backward , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-based politicians . from this perspective , this is a short time to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and is on everyone ’s mind , poised to crash out any day now . true , europe is drifting at a painfully slow pace , but the assault on its state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders are widening . new fronts in this war are opening daily on this front . true , europe is now moving at a painfully slow pace , but the offensive to the us and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders is widening .
some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . there is no reason – and no excuse – to leave millions ’s survival to unpredictable weather patterns . rather , countries must take control , by drastically improving their efficiency and productivity . simply put , they need the instruments , infrastructure , and the capacity to unlock a continent of tremendous agricultural potential . to be sure , there has been progress .
even prior to that time , england was an economic wunderkind of europe . such rapid industrial heats are rare , but not unprecedented at all . all are feeling that a major seismic shift is at hand . the most curious analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century , and japan ’s in the 20th century . europeans might be fairer , believing that the chinese market opens up , not just for european engineering products and machine tools , to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also for luxury goods and even tourism , demanded by a new and affluent chinese middle class .
cambridge – in putin ’s eyes , however , this is an unlikely scenario . his once and his future president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that , as financial insecurity grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many . everyone expects , once the current president , president dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin following the march election . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might have replaced medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity about economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might just buy putin some extra time .
furthermore , not only are the newer issues emanating from lower-grade borrower , covenants on such instruments – provisions designed to ensure compliance with their terms and thus minimize default risk – also became lax . likewise , for those repackaging corporate executives and bundling corporate clos , volume is its own reward , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for around 80 % of this outstanding figure . the share of the “ weakest links ” – corporates rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) in general , has risen well in aggregate activity since 2013-2015 . over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because banks did n’t have to live with the consequences .
before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of a likely commencement of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct importance for india on national security . issues such as sanctions on iran , the stopgap of the middle east peace process , and the world bank ’s response to an unlikely change of leadership in north korea will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda just as surely . one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on the matters that in recent years some indian mandarins have preferred lambable – such as south sudan , whose independence referendum threatens to spark serious violence in an area that india ’s united nations peacekeepers already serve . likewise , before too long , the council will have to consider the implications of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct importance to india ’s national security . all are matters that cry out for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” countries .
years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing middle age . that practicality will sorely test if it is to succeed . the fact that fidesz has increased its number of parliamentarians , from 20 before the elections to 129 , means that many members were never subjected to the party whip . moreover , a substantial number of such new fidesz mps were formerly members of other parties , who have collapsed right-wing parties , not that long ago . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks .
meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotion , even as those emotion , nostalgia , and völkisch feelings of belonging are ever-moving sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of themselves . as marine le pen ’s far-right french presidential candidate , marine le pen , puts it , the forces of globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become a sauvage . without disregarding both logic and ethics , areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine alternative , liberals need to connect with the people on the emotionality . yet it is liberalism ’s opponents , who are wielding it most effectively .
in studying physics , the students study algebra simultaneously motivating them with the hard power of mathematics . that sequence of study was compiled in 1893 . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores spectacular scientific advances throughout the twentieth century . studying physics , the students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them to the hard power of mathematics . other industrial nations can cycle themselves through divides of disciplines , missing the p-c-b sequence .
until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise the funding for wars . many at the time rejected policy completely , warning that it would erode incentives and put the economy in a standstill . but , in britain at the end of 1842 , an income tax became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . because of today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( unlike capital ) is declining globally . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ’s ( sgp ) deficit limits . governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guideline ( if it is ratified ) . yet sticking to the euro and forcing all downward adjustment on wages risks intensifying unrest ; indeed , it might merely postpone the inevitable . while talk is tough on this front , history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . in the us , the deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law have not been met , and , like the sgp , it has been revised and scaled .
between mtfa , efsm , and payments to non-member countries , the total exposure this year is € 70.5 billion . following a request by a member state , the commission would have the right to borrow on capital markets beneath the implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amount determined by the country ’s unused ( pre-committed ) structural and cohesion funds . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period might be feasible , while upholding the medium-term objective of a balanced budget . such leveraging the eu would complement both the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the successor to the efsm ) and mtfa . countries receiving aid should be given the option of applying for eu disbursement .
it is a tradition that they wish to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . they argue that western countries object to whaling , because , for them , whales are a special kind of animal , because cows are for hindus . the japanese do have one argument , in effect , that is not so readily dismissed . indeed , japan ’s desire to continue at killing whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ opposition to it . eating whales is neither necessary for our health nor better nutrition .
the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled back to efficient size , and the capital markets are capable of doing the job , improving resource allocation . abolishing taxes on realized capital gains increased sales of stocks enormously . the international equity fund stepped in , providing firms with urgently needed liquidity while disentangling a traditional ownership network . germany , inc. , is on its latest legs , has been on its latest legs . the bad news is that financial capital is edging abroad to finance other sagging conglomerates .
indeed , even absent such developments , drift is not desirable , either . north korea could take advantage of a passage over the time to increase its nuclear stockpile in its arsenal and make some improvements to its warheads and extra-judicial delivery systems without overt testing . the talks would probably remain suspended ; we are now back to where we were two years ago , albeit with an overlay of recrimination and mistrust . there is a great deal of difference between a north korean armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and grossly verifiable guided missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weapons that could be mounted on precise long-range missile-defense systems capable of reaching america itself . at that point , any realistic policy must begin with accepting a reality that complete , fully verifiable denuclearization is no realistic prospect any time soon .
a time arise when all disasters have occurred , and all of the stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line . fortunately , bond markets are dead , and that might take the year to revive them . their absence makes huge amounts of money in russian securities difficult to invest . something fundamental has changed , even if not all , russia ’s economy .
the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest , and with saudi arabia , could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in petrified systems . nowhere elsewhere in the world do we see modernity experienced as just as such a problem . faces from the royals are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are shrouded , apace , and aphidden . walking , quacks , traveled in carts , telephoned , and retweeted with compatriots , in part by social demands – above all for their personal empowerment .
in this scenario , you will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of a global division of labor . for example , the repeal of the us corn laws at the united kingdom in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i , in 1991 . after wwi , the pendulum has swinging back toward the nation . we can identify proofs with important upswings during the history of market capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward or against the nation-state . between these two extremes , the majority of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate such at risk , and to limit potential hazard from consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . japan has a powerful international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . local communities have initiated immediate decontamine-sensitive zones outside evacuated zones ( kindergartens and school , for example ) in tandem with the efforts of japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop technologies to mitigate remediation within such zones . japan ’s national government and local communities have lacked an emergency plan to find situations that it has faced in more contaminated zones , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiency and poor communication , particularly regarding radiological risk . but the “ perfect storm undertaking the largest earthquake and tsunami earthquake and since industrialization were involved , with the resulting meltdown of three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi power plant going beyond any scenario previously envisaged .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that era of leftist populism is drawing to a close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and influence in foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . she recently suffered harsh defeat in her peronist party ’s latest primaries , weakening its chances in upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following the surgery to strip subdural hematoma in her brazil .
in good times , we would probably not have told the distinction , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avert another crisis in the future . more important , should the council announce a state of fiscal emergency – like that pursued by the us currently – eu agencies might exceptionally get back on the predominance over national supervisors . with decisions about systemically important domestic financial institutions being made at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers picking the tab , the whole eu would lose out . the top three un agencies will not only enforce common technical standards ; that may eventually become binding eu-wide if the european commission is endorsed , but so , too , would be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . inimical to say , the “ disputes ” and the “ emergency ” of the “ emergency ” are precisely forward-looking situations , probably most to national policymakers and their taxpayers .
this week , there were two more attacks on schoolchildren in afghanistan , one at a girl ’ school , where employees were bludgeoned and bombs sets off , and another at a neighboring girls ’ school , where a classroom was sprayed with bullets . all are vulnerable to extremist violence ; millions more are young people are internally displaced . at the same time , the number of casualties in both the killings remains unknown . but the cause is all too well known : a war against education is at its highest level . more than 28 million out-of-school kids grow up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan frontier , somalia of myanmar , and south sudan .
one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by the publication of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . a comprehensive prevention program to provide free or inexpensive condoms and sex-information for safe sex to the regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion , saving more than 28 million lives . here ’s one fact to consider : the whole death toll from the association of southeast asian nations compares with that of the world ’s casualties of hiv/aids . the social benefits would outweigh the costs , on average , between 40 and one . this , say that the group ’s participation in the copenhagen consensus , makes the one best investment the world can possibly make .
after all , ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to a comfortable lifestyle . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on the “ co-dependent relationship … between america and its various trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite some time ” because “ america and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” in fact , japan , china , and some other export-oriented east asian economies have been keen to keep the dollar relatively high , having piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to invite their postures . china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as being less important than the need to keep near-full-employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai .
washington , dc – not long ago , the containment of financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in a number of countries . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle these function by assigning financial stability responsibility to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial-reform issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , finance supervision and sound macroeconomic management . this rapprochement is the result of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must account for both macroeconomic management and regulation . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles viewed many as essentially innocuous or at least as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel .
the two goals , while unincompatible , are very different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously catalyze both . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country of high gdp growth . seoul , if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both flee . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obligated to do : pursue both a level of growth and a level of distributional fairness . this line of thinking matters a lot in the context of trade policy , and we know how to do everything .
a ttip is not just a america and the eu . meanwhile , the world community of other nations , still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi , is wondering how the ttip would affect all of them . one possibility , suggested by my erstwhile colleague , former american trade representative roberto hills , is that a successful ttip would make a big impetus for a rekindling of the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , it will need to be harmonized for nafta and ttip .
to prevent a disorderly outcome within the eurozone , today ’s focus on fiscal austerity should be far more gradual , the growth compact should add to the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be in place . true , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt on banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . and , while the cloud over the eurozone might be the largest to burst , it is not the only threatened global economy . unfortunately , germany resists all such crucial policy arrangements , because it is fixated on credit risk toward which its taxpayers would incur more economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is rising .
it contends , for example , that its effort to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy is aimed at reining in the malacca straits , an naval trade route that is perceived as an choke point for the chinese economy . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly opposes india ’s own national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . to be sure , there is reason to believe that china ’s claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be harking back to the opening provided by the overstretched united states to assert control over a wide range of asia ’s oceans .
both would have to answer many hard questions and persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before being allowed to join . but the map process does not produce an automatic right of nato membership , either . european opponents of a map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither the country is prepared for nato membership . both would have to answer many hard questions , and to persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before being allowed to join . so far too many question marks their national unity , with too many internal conflicts drifting around , and their records on political and judicial reforms supposedly dubious .
so what should the left and the right continue to mean , if anything at all ? there is little doubt that something shifted in the last few decades of the twentieth century . redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities . but , like donald trump , le pen , who ran as the “ people ’s voice , ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrays such a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . left-wing parties began to lose out , in some countries more quickly than in others , their base at the industrial-working class .
the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preventive war . another is that north korea ’s two neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need their own nuclear weapons , given north korea ’s threat , and their diminished trust in america ’s reliability and its guarantee to safeguard them with its nuclear forces . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals increases the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in crises . “ use or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for fragility and conflict when capabilities are not sufficiently robust to absorb the attack , and it remains capable of mete out the sort of devastating retaliation essential for effective global deterrence . one risk is that north korea will over the coming years come to possess a significant arsenal , posing a meaningful american threat .
that emphasis on increased exports rather than reduced imports is a welcome feature . at a 2013 summit meeting in sunnylands in california in early july , us president barack obama showed chinese president xi jinping evidence that members of the us military was stealing industrial technology . the chinese embraced the evidence , agreed that stealing industrial technology from other forms of espionage , saying that it is not helpful for allowing the chinese government to theft in its future . given that this is not enough to stop other forms of chinese theft by american civilian and military technology , the new nss reportedly stresses that american officials will take further steps to stop it . when it turns toward specific trade policies , the nss stresses that america will seek “ to break trade barriers and provide americans with opportunities to expand their exports . ”
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift to a global balance of global power , and america was in decline . but such narratives can , however , lead to conflict . indeed , an overconfidence in assessing its strength led to increasingly assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated by deviating from a smart strategy of a rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that china ought to move gradually and “ “ skillfully ” to keep a low profile . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relationships with the us , japan , india , and other countries have opted for a return to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . argentina has slipped back into crisis for the simple reason that not enough has changed since the last debacle . though they were committed to an ambitious program of reform , argentina , its economic and financial authorities also made several avoidable mistakes . fiscal discipline and structural reforms were un-applied , and the central bank squandered its credibility at a key time . as it stands , countries of economic and financial foundations had remained vulnerable both to internal and external shocks .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has already begun . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contribute to research by professional forecasters predicted a decline in gdp in the second months of this year ; in fact , gdp plunged by over 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the biggest drops on record . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy rely on off-target , either incomplete or faulty data . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on introductory monthly quarterly gdp estimates , a statistic that is often substantially revised as more data become available . as a result , projections lag behind reality .
the west fights a war over principles , wars , as president bill clinton put it , “ to end a moral tragedy . ” this is an important change in nato ’s policy , one that downgrades the thinking of the sovereignty of nation-states and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . the struggle in kosovo is the first substantial conflict , which , for one side at least , involves without considerations of strategy , territory , populations , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . at issue is an attempt to halt the outbreak , the carriers of which in 20th century europe were nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism .
far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are today mandating green buildings to do . california ’s latest construction and appliance standards are expected to stay out of the need for five great power plants over the next ten years . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to establish a level playing field and to help build industrial capacity . buildings have started to do so over decades , so decision-making has a long-standing effect on our consumption of energy . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquake and new capability .
rather than try to investigate the capabilities presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , america hastily pressed the un security council for more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . that compelled brazil and turkey , both of which are currently non-permanent members of the security council , to vote against the sanctions resolution . nevertheless , the effort at preempt america ’s un-led strategy has clearly failed , as new un sanctions were in place earlier this month . as the agreement sought to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why was there so much outrage at america and the west ? i fear that this is because the us found itself denying its primacy in setting global policy on iran .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are commensurate with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid higher ratios , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity will undermine , rather than inflate , economic performance . at the same time , there is the issue of reversing causality . debt-to-gdp ratios have a tendency to rise for countries that are in economic trouble . they chose , absent a explanation , dividing debt-to-gdp ratios into the following categories : below 30 % , 30-60 % , and 60-90 % above 90 % . and it turns out that the growth rate drops across all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only slightly more in the final category .
that is also why the world goes a lot further in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . solar and wind combined currently deliver around 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav smil , who is bill gates ’ favorite energy expert , says that the un ’s claims of a quick transition to a zero-carbon society are straightforward , ” ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerated shift toward renewables would make it impossible to relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to world power anytime soon . as a result , policies are forcing people and companies to shift to immature technology-related technologies will curb growth and exacerbating energy poverty . many of today ’s panicky politics and climate protests are driven by the widespread conviction that the un intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet .
at the same time , remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money circulating in african countries . a ugandan physician working in norway cares little about beer costs in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local physician for services and , of course , a home in uganda .
rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally , offsetting potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer . in europe , by contrast , more weight is embedded in risk avoidance , undermines private-sector confidence in investment in innovation . this conception of risk underpins economic interactions . the eu ’s goal – protecting human health and the environment . but mitigation of all risk is impossible to mitigate , so the goal of doing so is untenable .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different and perhaps contradictory expectations from the more indirect negotiations that the united states has been pushing both sides to the start . just to remind the world of this , because the round of indirect talks was preparing to take off the ground , israel ’s ruling hamas approved a resolution of the 112 housing units in gaza ’s settlements south of bethlehem and the 1600 new settlement units in eastern kosovo . israel was one of the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call to give the arabs a blessing to the talks . it is now clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks without freezing settlement activity in the west bank and jerusalem is a form of victory . for the palestinians , a return to talks , however indirect , have focused on one strategic issue : borders .
for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` orthodox commandu '' `` thou shall not intervene , '' the critical feature of globalization hazard is market failure . in the us , such as floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal aid . that the failures of international capital markets have led to sudden , wrenching capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . in contrast to moral hazard , market failure highlights the circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . consider other devastating events uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector .
as margaret thatcher made clear during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . handing european ’s money and politics to the cartel administration did not just spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of deepening authoritarianism and poor economic performance . as a result , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions had been transferred , have remained democracy-free . the more european establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimacy of its political authority becomes . this leads european leaders to redouble down against authoritarianism in order to stick to its failed policies when recessionary economic forces strengthen .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march has been far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s are currently rate japanese treasury bond rates at only its fourth-highest level . nearly six months later , the total damage remains hard to forecast . social unrest and turmoil , as well as radiation leaks by the fukushima nuclear facility , continue . and now the country has absorbed another enormous blowup : another downgrade of its bond ratings .
syria and iraq have become crucial links in an iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize any crude missiles launched from gaza . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s sunni shia shia populations , sunni iraqi sunni militias , and hezbollah , which controls south lebanon and have thousands of rockets ready to reach targets israel . even when the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many could still evade the defensive systems . moreover , the iranian regime forged a network of proxy forces throughout the region .
indeed , rasheed notes that , at every us exam screening for his movie , audiences need to apologize before starting to relate rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as an agent of his own country . indeed , rasheed notes that , at every us exam screening for his movie , audiences need to apologize before starting to concern with rasheed as a filmmaker is , rather than as an agent of his country . “ personally , i do n’t ask anything ; i ’m here to clean up some of the confusion by the middle of the film . ” “ ravaged by war , and now buffeted by violence , islam is recognized as the most intellectually inclined of arab countries . here , here ’s the hope that raheed and his colleagues continue to build an iraqi culture that is both vibrant and loose ; and here ’s the hope that the relationship of the us and international audiences to rasheed goes from one expiation to one of engagement with her work .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-driven economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often misrepresented as a power grab , from assuming office in 2012 . and , as the recent europost-crisis experience has starkly demonstrated , implementing structural reforms is politically very difficult when vested interests have captured the regulatory system . the first risk stemmed from business cycles in advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , low inflation , and rising rates come together . yet china ’s problems extend far beyond its structural imbalances to two kinds of counter-cyclical macroeconomic risks .
what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for an environment , ” ” ” ” ” to quote one academic study . moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits for society . in uganda , freer trade during the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the average life expectancy of 2-3 years . in the us , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity significantly . economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and extend life expectancy as a result of rising incomes and better information overall .
yet , as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over differences or preempt dissent – much less destroy the compact at the heart of the european project – will not make matters any easier . likewise , inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to admission migrants , member states should work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . there is little question that makes 27 sovereign countries act like one . the permanent structured defense cooperation – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries growing , say , joint strategic planning at the european level . but , as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over differences or avoidance of dissent , much less destroy the compact at the core of the european project , will not make matters any easier .
to be sure , the news media are under assault , like never before , and not only from fake news and increasingly polarizing us presidents . slaying one of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , has labeled the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to the grim global tally . according to reporters without borders , over 1,000 journalists have been assassinated worldwide over the past 15 years , and only a handful of the perpetrators have been brought to justice . and yet , so far , fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in invigorated ways .
future historians may well bear in mind this period as humankind the greatest exercise in inclusiveness below date . yet not so long ago , almost no one saw this coming . seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income , but still received only 15 % of its population . now that billions of people around the world have lifted themselves out of poverty and are wealthier , healthier , with greater opportunities . this unanticipated megatrend has an unforeseen corollaries .
indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that ultimately exploit ordinary poles . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany illustrates just how different poland ’s worldview is today . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . at the same time , poland ’s communist government stressed how incoherent the opposition tended to be , owing to tensions within the inherent marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , frenchmen , conservative catholics and communists . nurturing suspicions about who was backing whom helped drive wedges among different groups .
as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to elect more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . things are just as bad at lower levels of government , where women account for just 13.1 % of representative positions in local parliaments , over 40 % of whom do not have female members at all . it is also disturbing that some women abe have singled out for his cabinet , and for key party posts are arch-conservatives who advocate staying at home and looking after their children . yet , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he might decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring in more womanhood ) . the inter-governmental union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its gdp ratio of female mps .
living a long time horizon is one of our deepest aspiration , and both medical and economic progress offer the hoped-for hope it will be met . a fundamental difficulty in planning for heightened longevity , we are not sure whether it will actually occur . what good is a longer life if we can not sustain our standard of living ? some scholars say that average human life could reach 90 years or more by mid-century . but what if our wish is issued ?
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be very careful not to alienate the country ’s political and business elites , who have long benefited from their tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to forge a national-level consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will have to move across this political divide . promisingly , jokowi has a strong reputation for autonomy from partisan and religious politics , as well as the talent for communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , he has positioned indonesia in its unique position to direct indonesia directly toward a more prosperous , united future by his own – and vault himself to the country ’s pantheon of great leaders . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” might serve as a useful model .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
the next g20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . draghi ’s successor as chairman should establish a full-time well-talk-appointee , and the fsb should grant powers directly to other standards setters , review implementation of norms by individual countries , and publicizing the results . currently , the board does not have a formal status and only small , albeit high-quality , sustained staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . it should grant the fsb the regulatory persona enshrined in an international treaty . the imf is far too political a body to serve as a systemic-risk watchdog .
dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied to madonna , rallied to the woman ’s support . pussy riot , of course , could hardly be classified as musicians . here , too , the case has attracted western attention . they have been more interested in creating visual images of the creation of visual images . both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary to the spectacle .
now , following companies are discovering massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take the charge of their oil policies want nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie in the process . that also means ending government co-funding of their operating costs and demanding that the national petroleum corporation tap capital markets be able to bridge the shortcoming . the ministry of petroleum resources ( dpr ) , the state department ’s privy regulatory agency , has discarded these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that lay off the bill . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , turning the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing enterprise that can dominate the market in gulf of guinea and other emerging regions . in the early 1990s , desperate short of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting offshore companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment ahead of profits .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states started with the so-called “ war on terror ” in the country . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole story ; many countries have also ramped up the monitoring and policing of the domestic media and ordinary citizens . freedom of expression and individual privacy , governments argued , would have to be curtailed for security . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror laws have often been used as a tool to muffle voices of those offering independent or alternative viewpoints , especially opinions that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by using security as the pretext to dupe russia on media laws that explicitly protect journalists against censorship , the authorities have substantially undermined journalism .
populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . colombian peace agreements , for example , appealed to universal norms of war-crimes committed by the army and the farc , not to national particularism , as in the us and the netherlands . but , as edmund burke famously emphasized , “ your representative owes you , not his industry alone , but its judgment and betrays , rather than serving you if it sacrifices it to its point of view . ” likewise , all have been willing to follow a tradition of the dictators , resorting to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . but each has been motivated largely by a desire to scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose .
to a bookish young man , allen , an anxious intellectual who still gets a girl , was a kind of role model . but now that we know the accusations against the comedian and film director , we are forced , in scott her opinion , to reappraise work in this light . this is at least an ever more interesting proposition than the notion that an art should disqualify only because we do not like the way an artist behaved in a private setting . something unappealing , even immoral , can be heard in films that we should take in account . in other words , misbehavior or even alleged misbehavior can taint an artistic works , because a non-artist can not be separated from his arts .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed on corruption charges . and , at the same time , public officials , too , are as prosecuted . indonesia ’s house speaker , setya novanto , was also forced to resign , after caught attempts at extort money from a subsidiary of freeport-mcmoran mining . and indonesia ’s special tribunal for corruption crimes has just given up on the ballot in poland , former minister of energy and mineral resources , jerusalem , to serve four years in prison . at the same time , journalism has played a larger role as well .
for this reason , many countries have endured the painful disruptions that aggravated potentially avoidable slumps in output , caused unemployment to soar , and , in the worst cases , eroded potential growth . a so-called “ splendid , de-leveraging ” entails combining internal reform , funding , and the judicious use of the market-based pricing mechanism . at the same time , most economists agree on an ideal mix and the sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers have been more likely to continue to boost their countries ’ ’ dependence on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than they have been getting through to implement difficult structural and fiscal adjustments .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article , based on a secret paper , that reveals how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ being treated as part of russia ’s sovereign territories . ” the documentary obtained by bild is a report released by the october meeting of russia ’s what form of an inter-ministerial commission to deliver humanitarian aid for the affected territories in southeastern occupied territories of peruvian and luhansk . the revelations casting about the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations for a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations the ukrainian government makes . it describes how the upcoming meeting attendees focused not just on humanitarian relief , but rather on serving as little shadow-banking management . working groups cooperating with russian authorities were set up to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , as well as trade .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and thrive , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , the temper and frame of mind that our current eu partners bring about this negotiation . here , too , there are varying degrees of politeness . let us be extremely obvious , also about renegotiating the terms of eu membership , ” the sanctuary of those who wish to leave but want to persuade people that it truly is an adjustment of the relationship . from the point of view of the eu , there will be enough varying degrees of politeness to speak . but they will not be thank us , and will not accommodate us , and will not accommodate ourselves .
a 2011 african development bank report find that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars show the world how to do this . africa ’s causes of stem gender imbalance often compare with a leaky pipe : girls start with interests and aptitude , but drop off disciplines at its various points in their learning . it also deprives the continent of the talents and contributions they need to drive development and progress . but they need help , and the programs that offer scholarships and aid are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences .
global firms waste time and resources on the largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( to benefit only those banks that operate as middlemen ) . the advantages of absorbing the world of national currencies would be immense . and , however farfetched a global currency might sound , recall that , before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed equally implausible . in fact , the current system is both risky and inefficient . different monies are not merely noxious for a tourist that arrive home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins .
their bid – which would have to go far beyond the 2002 arab peace initiative , or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – might even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of a transition to a final settlement . in the past , transition agreements actually amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with inclusion in a robust economic strategy , that could be transformed into “ auspicious gradualism ” . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in drafting statehood , drastically increasing the peace-enhancing settlements ’ chances of long-term success . what neither has been done is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal .
as a result , the umno has finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country , and rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power . her phrase has been roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that punishment is justly applied and can not be questioned because it has divine sanction . these are not politicians , but former idealists , who are happy to admit that their goals of islamicizing the state are being realized . around the world , most are the anti-umno and the supporting the pas . the caning of kartika , by contrast , is hardly an example of political manipulation and , for this reason , potentially even more worrisome .
among other things , the us would need to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta to preserve its own role in global trade , as well as to those of the asia-pacific supply chains that dominate asian economies . it would probably seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , a trade deal that us president barack obama has committed to working with the us last year . against this scenario , both japan and south korea would have to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific . specifically , the us would strongly urge japan to join the tpp , on the grounds that the american might seek a united asia-pacific economic community rather than a division between asia and the pacific . because japan would not wish to be insulated from america on strategic grounds , it might indeed embrace america ’s invitation .
as premier a pan-european institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe in discussing fiscal policy , trade policy , and demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes many important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and therefore unable to reach forcefully beyond its jurisdictions . this is the unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nations that have yet to determine whether they prefer greater unity or deeper decentralization . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands the super-normal sphere of influence . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and hence its inability to play the role of chief economist .
these results were foreshadowed by one such study last year , by anne case and angus deaton , who signaled that life expectancy has been on the decline of large segments of the population – including america ’s so-called angry rust belt men . but , if this appeared to be clear to the political consequences , their formulation and timing was much less obvious . and , while america may have been on the extremes of this trend , things were little better elsewhere . nevertheless , with incomes in the bottom 90 % having stagnated for near one third of a century ( and declining for a substantial share ) , figures of health have simply confirmed that things are not going well for very large swaths of the country . why has the backlash in the us come just when the economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ?
indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the gaza process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist while hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement merely to enter into negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal demands . the annapolis talks aside , which they appear to be going nowhere , owing to the parties that are ’ irreconcilable differences over core issues , all another peace effort is more tactical than strategic . in neither of them do the conditions yet exist for an imminent showdown from war to peace ; nor does the parties themselves expect this to happen . indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the gaza process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its own identity as a resistance movement merely to join in negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimum demands . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in yet another asymmetrical war , such as it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time at the alleys of gaza , in the palestinian refugee camps .
explicitly , germany , the european greatest economic powers , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce its simultaneous exit from the eu and re-acceptance of the deutsche mark and d-mark . this would trigger the deutsche mark 's immediate revaluation , and perhaps the franc – relative to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro within its truncated form or fall to their own national currencies , perhaps pegging them to a revived deutsche mark or franc . regardless of their decisions , the price competitiveness of the eurozone 's weaker economies would improve significantly . to be sure , both france and germany would have to implement provisional arrangements in order to safeguard their banking systems of ’ stability .
other autocratic rulers across the muslim world learn from iran ’s ’s example , cracking down hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or , just about anyone with ideas and wishes to exchange it with others . islamic revolutionaries in 1979 thus made a point of preserving zoroastrian fire temples . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorist , bombarding their regimes with an intellectualism . in its own muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , writers , and scientists of the world . none of this would have been possible if iran ’s authoritarian rulers had not allowed academic freedom and free exchanges of thought and expression – something that is sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic .
a leadership group ’s next priority would be to tackle the current crisis . initially , a governing group could include representatives from a core group of states , such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states , directly empowered by them and connected to their presidents and prime ministers . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from the existing arrangements . a leadership group would therefore represent an important public showdown with governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and it would give the vehicle desperate need to translating its resolve into action . to secure broad membership and transparency throughout europe and across existing structures , the eu should include a representative from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato .
the industrial world today is far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . as some confidence returns in a time recapitalized banking system , and long bond yields decline with the fall in inflation , mortgages , and other borrowing rates will fall , and monetary-policy transmission mechanisms will revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , if at a substantially lower level . the extreme spike in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and it is a major factor behind the recovery . a other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat mistakes – especially trade protectionism – of the 1930s . finally , there are two major differences between the 1930s and the current one .
populist movements have emerged , calling on closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : this is “ we can no longer take it for granted that people everywhere believe in the world in science , facts , and knowledge . ” researchers continue to surprise us with amazing discoveries and billions of people worldwide lifted out of poverty . but dark clouds have , on the horizon , gathered on the horizon . terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , and millions of refugees fleeing wars and starvation are being taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . to be sure , our expectations will invariably come across from tension with reality .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it can mean on ground – which remains to be seen as inspectors start flowing into syria , and there is hope , chemical-weapons stockpiles beginning to be destroyed . rather , the deal ’s core significance consists in its ties at hand : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva with most conventional diplomatic venues , and cut an agreement on an issue of intense mutual interest . in the days leading up , the weeks and months ahead the arrangements for removing chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , initiate a new era in which both america and russia work together on other pressing global issues simultaneously . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . the agreement on syria might accomplish something else : americans might recognize that , amlo and handhold , there are other ways to fix problems than by dropping bombs .
there is also an advantage to be put at the center of the global economy , rather than at the periphery . capital is at a far better position than labor , because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital is better situated in a global system than industrial capital ; as soon as a single plant exists , moving it is harder to do so . to be sure , while multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing , they can exert pressure in time for new investment decisions ; but the degree of flexibility does not outweigh the freedoms enjoyed by international portfolio investors . in fact , the benefits of globalized capitalism are unequally distributed .
i have long defaulted to watch the five-year forward price for the lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about the balance of oil prices . as i made clear in january 2015 , brent crude oil spot price is less subject to speculative volatility , combined with a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors of demand . the graph i set – which was made before the most recent oil-price acceleration in early november – shows the five-year forward oil price picking up after a period of some stability . with the spot price now shifting above a five-year forward price , one might conclude that a downward trend is afoot . for my part , i ’m uncertain ; but i would not be surprised if it happened .
but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj assumed power in the absence of a coherent national security policy . the dpj was established in 1998 as jambalaya ” ” ” ” ” ” ” consisting of people exiting the ldp , including hatoyama himself , together with the former socialist party . that does not amount to a coherent cabinet program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration was quick to unveil the dpj as a fundamental die-lowness . the dpj only reasons for remaining ; but is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes the koizumi era ’s privatizations . that was not amount to a coherent cabinet program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration ( bsp ) were quick to denounce the dpj as a fundamental nato member .
as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not an outright waste of money . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of primary defense . thus , time and again , we need to remind ourselves that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of each individual of us . the new republics of the region face no concrete or visible foe at the present . preparation for effective national defense is unthinkable , without increasing or no lesser degree of participation by all national institutions .
more investment might enable researchers to discover new microbial strains with their unique abilities to affect land and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could also have the spillover advantages for african economies . my own work on soil microbes at auburn resulted in the issuance of three american patents , with a few agricultural companies pursuing the rights to commercialize the technology ’s products . i can personally vouch for power of spillover benefits from this type of research . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries .
within the american-iranian equation , it was america , not iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . at the same time , iranians had pledged to halt the struggle against the israeli-arab peace process . and , when american forces overran saddam hussein in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians in the spring , encircled iranians proposed lofty talks that set all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . iran also backed america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan .
and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive buildup of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a large number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a “ preemptive deterrence ” strategy . at the same time , the us has long pursued a measure of military supremacy . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive buildup of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal .
with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) and comprised mainly of post-industrial , low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly viewed as peripheral . it tends to be perceived globally as supercilious , petulant , and prim . its know-it-all attitude grates at least everywhere . but in copenhagen , the very structure established by the lisbon treaty has failed . beyond the failure in copenhagen , the eu is left with several other problems .
but larger companies also have a greater capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it will not allow for wasteful packaging , its purchasing power leads to changes in packaging for the entire retail sector . when the world ’s largest companies and the best-recognized brands take seriously their responsibilities as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and a robust commitment to act upon core values , others tend to obey – or at the risk being left behind . the same applies to both wages and labor practices . those operating in an ethical way , looking ahead to improve the lives of everyone who is allied to the manufacture , marketing , and distributing their products will benefit kudos , more entrepreneurship , or simply not singled out as an evil actor .
but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . simply put , western countries ’ current approach does not work . this can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and there are 40 international ngos that contribute to aid to pakistanis . yet , despite the massive increase in aid dollars in the us over the last few years , including the one advocated by former us president barack obama , those on the ground are largely cut off from the delivery process .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francophone told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not result in the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change , owing to the catastrophic rise of global temperatures , harsher environments , and rising levels of poverty . ” oil companies , he noted , are engaged in “ the continued quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement clearly urged keeping most of the fossil-fuel companies underground underground . and he reminded executives that , “ civilization requires energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! ” in fact , the same form of corruption of purpose is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting , and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada on an enormous scale in renewables . francis has underscored the moral dimension of the issue :
the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemics ) has affected more than 280,000 cows . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that had been commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle have been feed meat and bone foodstuffs made from living with livestock . and , almost identical , seemingly lethal diseases , kuru , have ravaged and aboriginal people in papua new guinea for the entire twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are a infectious , and they are a infectious disease .
from every angle the extremity of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do n’t need it and those who ca n’t obtain it are highly problematic . when left unattended , it leads to progressively , and then accelerated , renewed economic system deleveraging , with top first-round costs – a larger unemployment and growth crisis – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer them . this includes those reliant on bank credit , just as many mortgage holders have very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their homes ’ market-value status . all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with more healthy balance sheets would make the case for it , accelerating their disengagement from a deleveraging world economy .
only few groups remained : the shining path in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile for briefly time in zapatistas in chiapas , mexico and the farc in colombia . all else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical flaws , erroneous theories , america ’s interventions , etc. – faced only defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly evident that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries collapsed . in country after country , the guerillas had been defeated , pacified , brought into the democratic process or became rendered irrelevant . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere made guerrilla warfare unjustifiable : as che rose above all at his 1962 la guerra de guerrillas , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , taking on arms is pointless .
the only political space left behind for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers and small business leaders , and low-level civil servants . european fascism collapsed with the defeat of germany in 1945 , but with less aggressive forms , lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the social foundations of interwar fascism made it sensible to see this as the center-right ’s parties . at that time , the working class dependably backed established parties of the left . today , the social base of left-wing politics has vanished .
putting this aside , let us suppose that a decision even before tsipras was so crucial and complex that it merited the referendum ’s extraordinary step . in that case , the event should have reflected that complexity . instead , greece got a hastily arranged referendum . it was meant to be organized and done with respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate intelligence was relayed to the greek people . it should have been an honest , deliberate sounding of the will .
for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but for others , as william galston notes , “ the language of human rights hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” likewise , different communities prioritize different human rights in different ways . related to polish circumcision , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and national authority , multiculturalism , and nationalism , as well as religiosity and secular moral perspectives . in other words , cultures play a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than in many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should remain wary of passing judgment in any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . as the human cultural psychologist richard shweder of opinion , opinion circumcision featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners over many centuries .
new delhi – here ’s something about the number five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relations according to yuela ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference ; mutual non-interference ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual advantage ; and peaceful co-existence ; and peaceful co-existence . this updated principles would maintain strategic communication and sound bilateral relationships ; harness each other ’s strengths , and expand collaboration with infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and interact ; expand coordination and collaborative relationships in a multilateral framework to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate concerns and resolve global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements as they move internally . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela sheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal for sino-indian relations . ” india would do well to embrace each of these principles .
this extreme , free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” went against the practical lessons of development successes of china and the rest of asia . the bank also pushed for the privatization of national health systems , water utilities and roads and power grids , and grossly underfinanced these critical industries . a practical development strategy recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is needed complements to private investment . for 25 years , the bank attempted to shift governments away from farming , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the result has been catastrophe in africa , with farm productivity in stagnant decades .
when america betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably . meanwhile , the perception that he has the us on the ropes provides for putin to continue silencing his adversaries . putin ’s authority may seem an unshakeable , but it actually fires propaganda and fear . in the run-up to next year ’s ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to exploit leeway to surrender leeway as foreign leaders surrender him . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of misbehavior , giving the government a pretext to bar him from ballot .
with energy prices moving center stage , the danger is that already-weak investment incentives in low-carbon energy will become further undermined . in the us , recent debates within the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . five years ago , britain cracked down on international denmark by enacting laws that mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . nowadays , eu political leaders openly attack “ burdensome ” green-energy taxes . across europe , calls for affordable energy ” turn quickly become a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and the rollback of green-energy commitments .
rampant corruption and rising inequalities , combined with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class – which once had high hopes of reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . in addition , in view of rapid population aging , china ’s ’s ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated . indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . a kleptocracy of government officials , their families , their families , and well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state and is intent on blocking any reforms that might jeopardize their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear-safety summit in seoul in march 2012 , news on the disarmament front ’s front over the past year has almost certainly been grim . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapon , which remains at an absurdly dangerous yet chilling launch readiness , chilling war-era launch readiness never actually began . cautious initial moves by america to amend its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear-armed iran ’ “ sole aim ” is to react to a nuclear threat and no other kind – have gone nowhere . no other nuclear-armed states , meanwhile , have voiced the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reductions negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold around 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make further major cuts . further us-russia rearms-reduction negotiations ground to a grinding halt long before the american presidential election season began .
the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a booming economy , delivered the first in three decades , normality to colombia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and rule of law to much of its big jungle regions . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . in the process , he has transformed a land that has been placed in the grip of narcotics barons and on the brink of becoming a failed state . likewise , chávez has pushed for the hostage rescue mission , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum in last year ’s era ( a moment when chávez ’s own army high command allegedly refused his demand to fudge the outcome ) on the defensive . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia .
but the reality remains that a substantial share of the world ’s more than 30 million displaced children , 12 million of whom are refugees , will go through school-age years without ever set foot in school . across the world ’s 35 conflict zones , there are currently 75 million children being denied both education and the prospect of future job opportunities . clearly , the need for an increase in international education aid will have to increase even more . yet with an annual funding gap for primary - and lower-secondary education alone , there is also a perception that we need a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , we must make already available aid already ( sdg 13 billion this year ) , going much further than it has in the past by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase investments in education .
and , indeed , a substantial share of greece ’s gdp has migrated from the banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . but the risks have not been eliminated , either . the margin of error for leading banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet strongly capitalized , modest losses from the direct default and the indirect losses imposed by greece ’s business companies can endanger bank capital , causing bankers to cut back on lending . in that sense , these public institutions have already largely bailed out private institutions .
it would have been useful , for example , for programs to track how many high-bloodletting people have diagnosed and allocated to treatment , what share of those on treatment had reached blood-curdling charges , and what levels of treatment would have required to reduce premature deaths through a desirable goal . finally , the aids effort was able to broaden , owing to powerful advocacy and collaborations that are reshaping markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medicines needs , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in combination with intensive advocacy , policymakers and providers were empowered to secure market efficiencies . the resulting economies of scale enabled suppliers to shift from low , high-volume , low-margin solutions to high-volume , inferior profit models . as a result , such efforts reduced the costs of annual hiv treatments from over $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what kills a person is part of an epidemic . the global consensus , reflected in the un commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions , so that if , say , drugs can be made available at all times in any case where to do so might save a life . nevertheless , within its bilateral trade agreements , the us is demanding what becomes known as “ trips plus ” that would strengthen its intellectual-property rights further , ensure that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergency situations . just prior to the last year ’s trade talks at cancun , america has made some concessions that it is no longer the only holdout . bilateral agreements form the foundation of enhanced friendship ties among countries .
without this exchange-rate correction , faster us export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether a us recovery is real . if it does , china ’s ’s exports will grow more quickly . and if its exports are growing more rapidly , they may allow the renminbi to rise . meanwhile , the us spending growth rate will not change dramatically .
in particular , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency with governments and other multilateral institutions ( most notably the world bank ) with systemically influential , sub-national , and private , partners . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on countries or in political-economic capacity work , were discouraged . broader national engagement , involving ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers , is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , just as it is vital to the fund ’s “ supervision ” function under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that now departs its policy agenda . the situation these issues are very different today .
leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating childhood abductions of children from schools a “ trigger ” for naming terrorist organizations in the un secretary general an annual report to the un security council . and , by bringing together the un children ’s fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to protect education from strikes , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the idea of making safe schools more effective . once slow to respond , the world is acting today . indeed , thirty countries recently signed up to lucens or safe un high school guidelines to instruct their military organs to prevent the use of schools as instruments of war . this has meant funding school guards , un fortifications , and surveillance facilities to reassure parents and pupils that all that possible is being done to ensure that their school is safe to participate .
just as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more growth in domestic demand , via delayed fiscal austerity , in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players , the european central bank and the german government , want no part of that agenda , hoping that one-quarter of good gdp data makes greece a trend . that makes greece insolvent , and a coercive restructuring of its public-sector debt becomes inevitable . that is why spain and greece are in serious trouble , and why even italy , on relatively sounder fiscal footing , has flat per capita income for ten years and little structural reform – can not become complacent . indeed , the rest of the eurozone is in no better shape than the periphery : its bond vigilantes might not have woken in france , but its economic performance has been anemic at best – driven mostly by a mini housing boom .
jospin and chirac did nothing to implement the large liberalization program ( including on energy , financial services , and transportation ) agreed among eu members two years ago , implying that the benefits of liberalisation are denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all kinds of restrictions on the french way of doing business . the shame of le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and resolve the country ’s problems . europe used to think that the french political class could be the solution . but europe and the eu might be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( l’exception france ) and initiate serious reforms that engage the french electorate .
a modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and , indeed , national identity , is under threat . modern economic growth still depends in almost any advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway being an exception ) . people in places like france and poland , who are worried about domestic decay , seek to blame somebody outside the eu . sure enough , that type of sentiment was lost in the 1930 ’s , when the populist reaction to the great depression attributed it to sinister forces of “ international capital . ” an alternative scenario suggests that such fears have emanated from the real issue .
his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but reflects the practice that naming a person as the father of his eldest son , is the father of israel ’s eldest son . abbas ’s son , mazen , runs a local advertisement . his attempt at the primary , abu mazen , is not the revolutionary name but reflects the practice of having naming a person as the father of his eldest son . calling to national elections , while politically correct , was the purpose of political suicidal , because he lacked any picture of a possible outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . an attempt at the primary to choose fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street in the heartland of nicosia , a symbol of a divided cyprus , has been a symbol . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that split the capital to north and south has opened the once more . slowly , those who had not mingled for 44 years have begun to renew their ties and rediscover one another . it has been a window onto what the future may have been intended to bring about . at the end of the year , i visited the ledra street crossing .
but if the suggestions discussed in beijing over the past month are realized , the resulting fta could far surpass nafta over its level of integration and importance toward the global economy . such a turn of events would coincide with the establishment of an east asian free-trade area that asean +3 envisioned some ten years ago . moreover , creating a china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand southward , encouraging asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries to join the group . if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon .
compare this with antibiotic treatment of , say , urogenital infections , which lasts a few weeks down at most . as a result , adherence to tb drugs to tb treatments is especially weak , paving the way for multi-drug-resistant ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer be treatable with conventional therapeutic regimes . while treating mdr-tb remains a possibility , doing so is arduous , with treatment time of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as canonical drugs – and at a cost that rises in the s & p 500 factor of 10 . while this extra cost can be passed on to health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , predestined no or inadequate treatment . some 50 million people become infected with the tubercle bacilli that is dr. .
in a country where money trumps democracy , such laws have become predictably frequent . of course , market forces play a role , too ; but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system and its revolving doors between governments and industries , politics is shaped by money . of course , market forces play a role here , too , but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system and its revolving doors between governments and industries , politics are shaped by money . but rising inequality is not inevitable at all . there are market economies that do better , both in terms of both gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of their citizens .
on the other hand , former us secretary of state and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed welfare reform and medicare reform . a progressive redistributive agenda might continue in advance , lest a conservative entitlement-reform agenda fail . with so few us presidential candidates recognizing the connection between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . in fact , senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton , a democratic rival , proposes to broaden programs to include unfunded liabilities . either way , america would face growth-constraining tax increases and limits on contributions that public-investment can make countries ’s future .
this is precisely what the austrian conservative peoples ’ party under wolfgang schuessel did not do . confronted with the electoral result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or the freedom party of haider , haider ’s freedom party forged a faustian pact with haider ’s . yet in all of these countries , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never enter an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where the french conservatives expelled each other from its own party ; the same goes for france , where the french conservatives fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . there might be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s own party ( no less a chancellor in such a coalition , at least ) . austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in so many european countries , too , in britain , france , even in some of the scandinavian countries .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation at hand , the debt-to-gdp ratio will soar to 91.2 % by 2027 . a direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by any tax reform will be to raise this to 97 % . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt-to-gdp ratio would make meeting that more difficult to achieve than a debt-to-gdp ratio of 92 % . at the end of this year , the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation would rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . but even a massive spending program like america ’s $ 900 billion in 2009 and reinvestment act would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s men and appeals to all its stakeholders ” to adopt the results that the electoral commission declared . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan was calling on all the parties to “ respect and fully executing the verdict of ivorian people , ” as declared by an independent electoral commission . and us president barack obama has congratulated ouattara , stating that the world will “ hold those who act to thwart the democratic process , and the willingness of voters to be accountable for their actions . ” at the same time , the african union has responded promptly . its peacekeeping and the security council have met , expressing the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to establish a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process .
seoul – has the world entered a new era of turmoil ? indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions by iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to weaponized its military might , even as “ red lines ” crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to shoulder any serious strain on maintaining its global leadership positions . china ’s leaders have demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership , by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” within the framework of the international political and economic system . america ’s vacillating policy toward syria has certainly implied that it happen . but , unless america is seen to take the lead , who will assume its place ?
our research shows that industrial policies were successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industry . brazil tried to become an energy self-sufficient in similar ways to other countries ’ modern efforts . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970 ’s rising oil prices raised the industry in the 1990 ’s . ethanol accounted for more than 50 % of emerging-market demand in the country , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies , expects that share to rise to over 80 % by 2020 . yet that would not have worked without the crucial role it played by competition .
“ a child ’s creativeness and the ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report , “ and his whole intellectual world is impoverished . ” the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when it is forced to perform as “ little adults . ” the sad reality is that families are often the last to protest exploitation . the indian fathers continued to repay debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents , on the other hand , maim their children to make them beguiling beggars .
but , despite its riches and military might , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill – shrinks in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s defense budget is in crisis . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities back then . japan alone holds foreign-exchange reserves equal to about $ 750 billion , much of that in america ’s then us treasury bills . due to bush ’s tax cuts and military spending – which contributed to budget deficits worth $ 500 billion a year – the u.s. will need to raise taxes and rein in budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected . a projected budget deficit reduction of $ 150 billion since bush took office will have to be slashed in the coming years to put the us budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad .
to be sure , there has long been policy efforts to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce the " gold dinar ” as the answer to an us-based currency system . russia ’s theorem of “ eurasia ” also often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a convenient metal . so far , although no more devastating monetary attack has emerged outside the domain of theaters of theaters . in fact , the most seductive alternative seems to have been a gold rush .
to be sure , a single short-sellers can not “ make in the price of an asset ” ( unless he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a small group of speculators determine ( rightly or unwound ) that a sovereign ’s debt is overpriced , then they can force down its price , thereby forcing its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . if assault persists , speculators can force governments to default on their debt unless this can find ways to finance its borrowing more cheaply . voilà , voilà , a successful “ short ” deal-making arrangement , is a successful “ short ” trade-off . my earnings for correctly taking this bearish view are thus € 1.65 m – the € 9.1 m i got by selling bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to foot goldman sachs for the six-month loan .
doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have backfired in the last few weeks . indeed , the slowdown in chinese economic growth earlier this year was the result almost entirely of deliberate choices intended to deleverage the banking system , cutting local governments ’ borrowing , curbing over-investment in infrastructure , and discouraging booming house prices through tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . clear-eyed pronouncements from policymakers , all the way up to xi have signaled that china will not allow any further weakening of the us economy next year , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or loosening of bank deleveraging and triggering monetary tightening . to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s export exports , the authorities and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand .
slaves from africa were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to english mills . the finished cloth was then exported to the rest of the world . such was the age of rural blacksmith , weaver , potter and cobbler . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the establishment of global supply chains to emerge . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift .
i do not know what “ the progressive direction of an advanced culture ” is , but advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous weeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or “ eliminating the demons and vicious heresy campaign . ” such obscurantism merely produces a “ stultifying culture . ” is it “ always represented ” by the hlone political party ? it does not need to be “ represented . ” is it to be “ always represented ” by the lone political party ?
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria 's president , was one of the first to do so . uganda 's president yoweri museveni was following suit when signing a anti-gay bill in march 2014 . other leaders , from gambia , pledging president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe to robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official attitudes have caused significant suffering for africa gay men and lesbians . indeed , there is a growing sense in the price of homophobia for gay people in many african countries : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice .
still , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decision-making . china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developed countries have insufficient access to capital for infrastructure . that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it transform the imf , the brics countries , or china , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda at the expense of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , fund imf chief economist olivier blanchard has fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in recent times , governments had indeed tended to underestimate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that to cut public spending by one dollar would cut gdp by $ 50 in the short-term ; by blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions is a deficit of $ 0.90-1.70 . that ’s a huge gap , but it is also perplexing finding : how can so much be done now ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , when economists are in fact aware of the consequences of fiscal policies , at least far more than they used to know them . until the 1980 ’s , it routinely predicted that so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp change to changes in us government spending – was stable and larger than one .
military planners , who consider using nuclear weapons , have probably given scant consideration to those living in cities on their targetlists . making matters worse , there have been suggestions about their actual use of such conduct . at the same time , people worldwide need to stop on one another as untrustworthy enemies . but , because the public is well educated about the particular threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose for the cities in which they live , that stance will become increasingly difficult to maintain . for too long , urban dwellers have been used as pawns on the global nuclear-chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of playing the game .
such groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given that large segments of europeans are unconvinced that the worst is coming out of the eu . moreover , right-wing populist parties have exploited growing public frustration with the eu itself . at the same time , many europeans are resisting the idea of more europe , ” the eu ’s mantra in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( s & d ) . the influence of the widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ northern ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with france at the center ( but headed by the south ) , was also apparent . and the massive prosperity gap between the old ” ” and the “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns .
no single gold powder , as lesser moguls might offer , nor even purest purest purest by . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos extricated in africa . today , the international union for nature conservation estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful of them in namibia and kenya . they raise their spectacles , filled with the finest scotch sprinkled with fine powder .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are anything but interdependent for our own national security , as is apparent in the current struggle to defeat isis . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit that ideology that gives extremists their power , by restoring hope and dignity to those whom it would recruit . isis certainly can and will , be defeated militarily by an international coalition that currently is teamed , and that the uae is actively backing . if we are to prevent isis from lecturing us to this lesson , we must acknowledge that we can not extinguish fires to fanaticism by force ourselves alone .
cambridge – this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for the us work on `` asymmetry of information . '' that year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself over and for our work on `` asymmetry of information . '' they recognized that information was imperfect but hoped that a world with moderate imperfections of information might be akin to a world with perfect information . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information could have profound effects on how economies behaved . what is that work about , and why was we committed to it ?
under the threat of a total collapse in the whole system , the safety net implied by helping unfortunate individuals to meet life-support exigencies – expanded generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance companies , auto companies , even car-loan companies . never has so much money been channeled away from so many now and so few . we are becoming used to thinking about a government transfer of money from goodhart to the poor . the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not advance society ’s well-being ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve the homeowners who were losing their homes , the workers who had lost their jobs , pensioners , who saw their retirement funds going vanish , or the taxpayer who had paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks .
that approach would align with the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing the most recent round of sanctions against russia last month , that ukraine must be permitted to chart a military alliance . obviously , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s position may change to the future , with cultural , demographic , and economic shifts creating the needed consensus to abandon neutrality . what matters would be the principle that the us constitution requires a super-majority , rather than , say , an easily reversible , euro-atlantic resolution , adopted by ukraine ’s parliament in 2010 , to join a military alliance . the practical outcome , ukraine ’s remaining unaligned in military and security terms , would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , divided among inherently antagonistic identities , to live jointly peacefully .
in institutional terms , long term reform should aim to shift to a pay-as-you-go retirement system based on individual savings accounts , as has been the case in chile , opposing the status quo running up , pay-as-you-go pension systems . again , political elites -- at home and away from abroad -- will need to place public attention on the looming fiscal crises . in coming years , the most important fiscal task facing eastern europe and nis government will be to reduce the size of welfare spending to a more reasonable proportion of gdp . at the institutional level , long-run reform should seek to shift to a pay-as-you-go retirement system based on individual saving accounts , as has occurred in chile , opposing the status quo running up , pay-as-you-go retirement systems . in any viable prolonged arrangement , the level of benefit relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised through international norms , and eligibility for specialized pensions ( disability ones especially ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need .
but that may well follow the second stage , in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and the concentration of industry begins to compensate for a one-off structural effects of new technologies that are broadly adopted . and , in the third phase , perhaps a potential onset of higher inflation can catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing over-the-counter reactions that make bad situations worse . as with most paradigm shift , there can be little assurance regarding the scale of such a scenario . but , one way or another , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their inflation-targeting outlook is subject to a broader range of dynamic possibilities than previously thought so far . focusing too narrowly on a cyclical rather than a structural one could pose serious risks to future economic well-being and financial stability .
a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and alike into all parts of the un ’s agenda , not just in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues . the un ’s messy agendas , peace-keeping and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum rather than left rigid , self-contained institutional silos . both groups would operate according to a common mandate across all un agencies and are led by un operations in individual countries . the same goes for the implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and electric power resources to keep global temperatures from rising above 2º celsius . the multidisciplinary , united nations special team ” groups could be established to crack down on departmental barriers and confront a appropriate challenge .
the most expensive countries with which to end extreme poverty would come from the democratic republic of congo and nigeria . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty at a recent 2011 survey , india is home to some of the world ’s largest absolute number of poor people . each is on an average of 38 cents per day below the extreme-poverty line . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extremely poor , and falls the dollar brief on the poverty line , on average . for india , the costs adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion in exchange-rate dollars .
indeed , when oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it promotes investment in infrastructure and human development . furthermore , during the last few decades , advanced-country macroeconomic policies became more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbating volatility in international financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-run orientation toward sound economic policies that limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . more fiscal space can be generated by improving governance and strengthening fiscal foundations and , for the poorest countries , by achieving additional stability-oriented official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . ultimately , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets , and guaranteeing property rights .
coca cultivation has been slashed by one-quarter over the last five years , and cocaine seizures have nearly doubled . the cocaine used to be an american problem , to the point that the united states has embarked on a major campaign against sellers and pardoning cocaine consumers in nearby cities , drug traffickers , and contractors in the andes . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or decreasing . at the same time , europe ’s leaders need serious action on europe ’s cocaine problem . “ white lady ” seducing a steadily growing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences .
berkeley – it has now been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” ” while trust in congress has fallen below 9 % . yet state and local governments still trust the majority of voters , and have power , under the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution , to form stronger democratic institutions . according to some pessimists , america ’s constitution was not designed to deal so sharply with a country ’s challenges so sharply divided between income , race , and partisanship . among us congressional republicans , above all the “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism , trump undermines the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is just what many on the far right want
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to behave business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , a country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . for example , for more than ten years , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s police forces , customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms from a state-owned factory in madzinsky , named after the father of red terror and the soviet-era kgb founder , feliks dzhersky . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner simultaneously trying to insulate him as an international pariah , europe ’s hypocrisy stands naked . this is particularly true when one has the chance to save or make money .
at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation ( ltro ) , which pulled the european banking system back from the brink . bond yields in southern european countries soared , creating a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . bond yields in southern europe soared , creating a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . finally , there was the creation of decisive action in december . there would be a “ fiscal treaty , ” which would enhance the stability and growth pact and , importantly , imply automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members adhere to these rules .
in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their regulations . an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado , stock exchanges ’s special voluntary listing segment , which establishes strong protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view . their only recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms out of the exchanges . yet stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . the novo mercado has handled this problem by subjecting disputes involving his newly-listed companies to wto arbitration .
new york – january is traditionally the first time to assess a previous year ’s development with a view to predicting what a new one has in store . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , though us may be at a turning point for more better politically , the data that have emerged over the past month do not paint a promising picture of a global economy on its short-term prospects . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
obviously , a simultaneous shift in a handful of countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education , with large-scale concomitant productivity gains , might undercut the competitiveness of an economy that has not made such efforts seem impossible . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future . in fact , europe ’s proliferation of highly specialized universities has so far failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and translating comprehensive universities into specialized institutes of science and technology in the soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies . but , again , this contradicts traditional trading dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another .
first , all was caused by a profound social-welfare crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , low inflation , and devaluation . without a severe crisis , no major reform was likely . second , a change of government through elections prompted reforms and grants democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is now often argued . third , these reforms require a powerful leader .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , cash holdings by the corporate sector in the united states have piled up a quarter after a quarter of the time , reaching all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . but , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets , which they have been extremely hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted , many companies have so far favored ( or pressured by activist investors ) giving it back to the shareholders . moreover , because companies have dramatically improved their operating efficiency and gotten the maturities on their debt , they need far fewer precautionary savings than they have done in the past . but one looks at it , the corporate sector in general , and in america in particular , is just as strong as it has had in many years . likewise , non-financial firms have reached a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with the prevailing conditions of some households and governments around the world that have faced adequately the legacy of over-leverage .
perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world ’s ’s largest muslim state with a burgeoning middle class , relatively more robust democratic politics , and an economic star performer in asia , despite a global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia represents an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for “ america in decline ” for “ cheering partition . ” purely on the standpoint of its economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power , whose primary liability is the dangers of the regime of its evil twin to the north collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing significance in the middle east and energy politics , nato membership , the european union ’s membership bid , and ties to ethnic cousins across central asia . moreover , indonesia has shown resilience not only economically , but also , like its nation-state .
the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on promoting values being exceedingly vulnerable to accusations of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win the support or cooperation of the others can afford to be viewed comfortable with an unambiguous double standards . and the worst of all of them can be perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit massachusetts atrocity crimes against their own citizens . a good example is an allegation that the un ’s “ responsibility to safeguard ” principles is inherently misplaced , because the major powers will always become immune from interventions , not only because five of them can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their inherent military power . but that ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever become legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , the test of diminishing , rather than augmenting , human suffering .
already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff-free access to europe ’s market , provided through the bloc ’s “ all but arms ” trade regime . yet that appears to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans must do . the last thing that cambodia ’s need also is to risk economic reprisal for the us to help chinese firms dodge us tariffs . ssez ’s recent deniability that any company operating there has been fined by the american company reinforces a suspicion that hun sen ’s administration will continue to turn a blind eye . that might be good for cambodia , but it is bad for cambodia .
new york – over 200 million people , about 10 % of global gdp , are unemployed . in the united states , some important economies are still fighting deflation . the global economy risks getting stuck at the “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of slow growth and feeble job creation . if the interventions assembled by the g20 in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion to global income . in order to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum .
it endorses policies that capture accurately the relationships between “ “ out of zone operations ” and with members vows to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . what sort of relations should nato have with its eu partners do ? the albright report does seek to resolve these questions in a more balanced way . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military goals could come together jointly with russia via more stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms-reduction verified of un non-proliferation and arms-control treaties . should it undergo a further simultaneous transformation and nato enlargement ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior was smart and delusional . japan officially endorses the objective in a non-nuclear world , but depends on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid becoming subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . for their part , the us worries that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will be impaired if america chokes its nuclear forces there to parity with china . it is a mistake , however , to believe that extended deterrence will depend on parity in the numbers of nuclear weapons . for north caucasian koreans , the north ’s neighbors violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned about a regime collapse of north korea , thus posing the threat of chaos on its own borders .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america , at least two colleges of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and spurring more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the other , broadly so far , that of the democratic party has been rather complicated , much has been based on four observations : · in the industrial core of the global economy , at least this had then been more than 60 years since financial disruptions to overall output and employment levels . the first school of thought , broadly that of the united states ’ republican party , was that financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was bad . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why was n’t that then ?
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals ; of course ; but that should n’t alienate moderate voters either already , because more equality will be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his pseudopopulism is not about helping the left behind folks in the rust belt towns and rural hinterlands . it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies remain convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” the democrats ’ keynesian message over the next two years should be that in a plutocracy , everybody else loses . it is to say that it is to give even more money to these very few .
similarly , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing tough sanctions . but the iranians have responded by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford full-scale war and a rising oil-price spike that would result from it . still , with no deal by year ’s end , a clash becomes likely . as the street ticks down , a bad outcome has become more likely . but the iranians have reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford full-scale war and a rising oil-price spike that would result .
over the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic communities have all clearly reflected a shift in attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not us ” forces . but the scaf now appears to have recognized that in a leaderless arab situation , no civilian politician can grant arab immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals . add to that the scaf has drawn cautious politicians and dissectional their relative weaknesses , limited capacity , notorious “ opportunism ” and the general mismatch . as a result , there is a growing conviction within the scaf that its age-old “ minimum ” demands have become both futile and insufficient . politics polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition .
paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america withdraws from the rest of the world . that , in turn , requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and making foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . higher debt-service costs demand , in turn , renders us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . over half of that amount , foreign investors hold the fewest rate of just over half of that amount . by the end of the decade , the u.s. will have to pay the equivalent of more than one-third of the revenues from personal-income tax just to pay the interest on its national debt .
if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma facing the west is that it must deal with a regime disenfranchised by election fraud , but remains indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s vital problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also key actors in cooling hotspots in the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from domestic political matters and concerns about internal liberty , the choice among the leading candidates has hinges on whether iran should push for greater international integration . ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . a merely opening policy would thus move the regime ’s existence fast .
cambridge – since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well under 1.5 % , the overall factor of potential productivity has stagnated or declined . but , where it counts , in terms of overall productivity and economic growth , the story is one of considerable disappointment . perhaps the most visible gains were at stake in the external front . exports dogged chile from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and inward foreign direct investment tripled . if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy in economic development , mexico was .
after all , many asian countries have made impressive , export-led growth under the current system . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever bigger share of global output ( to about two-thirds , now about two-thirds ) , and further expanding them requires major changes in existing agreements . and bilateral or regional trade deals may leapfrog over some of the barriers embedded in the current global system . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade continually evolves , with existing agreements having only the limited capacity to adapt . even if asia were to succeed by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , particularly africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
most of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury through a variety of means and generate signals that travel to the spinal cord and from there to the brain . from there , researchers believed , signals went front and down over the part of the cerebral cortex that runs them , and somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experiences . she reminds physicians that , for humans suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is powerful negative emotions . a contemporary nonmedical writer has characterized qualities of acute pain , as including extremism extreme unpleasantness , the ability to annihilate complicated thinking and other sensibilities , the ability to destroy language , and the capacity to intimidate objectification . for many years , the scientists thought that these signal signals are appearing along several well-defined lines to reach a relay station in the brain called thalamus .
according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the keynesian event that set in motion developments that would ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movement as the global norm . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to endorse his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists carried out the abrupt salaried midland face and embraced cutting-edge financial liberalization globally . the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , with two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and his assistant , respectively ) – leading the way . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who served as governor of france under mitterrand . then it was the turn of the organization of economic cooperation and development .
the next day , it was drawn by de gaulle ’s face , but resolute and full of energy . men at the barricades were persuaded to leave their opposition stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escapes to spain . the defeat of the military revolt was the first time that the latter ’s republican establishment was asserted over the pieds noirs who helped bring down the fourth republic . within 15 minutes of netanyahu ’s general ’s face fading from behind screen , with 40 army units in algeria declaring their allegiance . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric , aided , must be made , by laborious insurgents , established the primacy of statehood .
was the israelis really willing to seek a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of a recognized palestinian state to take israel into the international criminal court for war crimes ? if not , why are they so ham-fisted ? israel appears to be making the same mistake that others have made . beyond that , military intimidation of civilians , on the other hand , is not breaking their morale and turning them against their own supreme leader , however appalling the regime . indeed , palestinian diplomatic promotion has offered him a lifeline .
the un will play a central role in the reconstruction of a working government in that country and in coordinating the humanitarian assistance of the afghan people . while these seem to be a grab-bag of accomplishments , they point to a single message : the global community community is finding new ways to collaborate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and a global recession . the growing role of the un at this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy behind the global fight against terrorism , helping to reassure many countries that this is a very true international effort , not only by america acting alone . the growing role of the un international bodies under the un umbrella provides more confidence that disputes can be resolved peacefully and even sensibly , with substantial inputs of scientific expertise , as at the paris climate treaty . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only effectively proceeded apace , but it has led to a profound diplomatic breakthrough just just before .
indeed , brazil ’s upcoming elections this year are like a soccer match between the big teams , where one candidate ’s supporters , together with another , are solely distinguished by the colors of their shirts , because the strongest teams accept the rules of the game and even the tactics of the washington consensus . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , colors in the electoral landscape are closely related to one reality : the “ “ irrelevance ” of politics , owing to its own form of “ financiarisation . ” in other words , there is no longer a battle between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that might cast voters as much emotions . here , brazil is no less different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . apart from barely practical political rhetoric by leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new to offer in the global electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus .
but the most important changes must come from within the media industry itself . violence against journalists has historically been an issue left behind . if reporters use their platforms to inform the world of the dangers they have and their peers now face , the world will have to listen to it . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , their freelancers , and audiences should report on the topic . with attacks on the press on the rise , the old approach , prideful silence , no longer makes sense .
rome – back in 2010 , global leaders accomplished the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of reducing the world ’s share of the world ’s poor to about half of its 1990 level – taking five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes grossly understate the enduring threats of extreme poverty worldwide . despite their shortcomings , action on income is helpful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability globally . after all , extreme poverty is not an unchanging attribute of a rigid group ; it is a condition in which it threatens billions of vulnerable people . but the world bank , a poverty line of $ 1.25 per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) used to measure progress toward the mdgs , is not the only relevant threshold .
while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising public-debt levels ; loss of competitiveness and a sluggish reduction of unit labor costs ( which a powerful euro does not help ) ; and exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending under control . indeed , there is the looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effects of productivity growth in years of diminished human and physical capital . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented far too slowly . the outlook for 2014 is put dampened by longer-term constraints as well .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion in order to remain within the eurozone whereas its yearly gdp is only € 23 billion . but , realizing that denomination is a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get gas to the market in europe and elsewhere , the gas liquefaction produces about € 10 billion of energy needs to be built , with israeli investors having already expressed interest . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth and the funding needed to develop it dwarfs the country ’s present funding woes . but these figures must be put within the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture , something that ongoing debt negotiations have failed to make .
syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for poland ’s woes . new democracy and pasok are doing much the same , invading the eu , “ speculators , ” and hedge funds – anyone who might divert the public ’s attention from their own responsibility to resolve the crisis . thus , most tv channels speak of a european bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma . as a result , for far too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , rather than their countries ’ profligacy . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige .
but america ’s diminished leverage can not match that of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” israel ’s policy shift toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , was a potent message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese train as it has done so well . lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients ease the burden of a “ lebanese front ” on their own grievances . after all , it was minuscule qatar to brokered lebanon into a domestic settlement , egypt that has mediated the gaza strip and turkey that is facilitating israeli-syrian talks . nor is hezbollah keen to see the end of israel ’s occupation of its sheba farms on its lebanon border undermine its claim to a formidable , independent military power that it has built with iranian and syrian help .
but with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on real-life trends , rather than on the formal unemployment rate and its implications relative to traditional models . furthermore , while the fed ’s members tend to believe that america ’s income-tax rate on potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell ’s , seems open to the view that trump ’s tax cuts and de-regulatory policies combine the next wave of technological innovation to allow for somewhat stronger , non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during both recessions and slow recoveries by letting above-target inflation during expansionary periods . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 . and , though the revision is still in its early stages , the fed already seems to have embraced the notion that it wants inflation to exceed 2 % without instantly triggering a tightening .
at fukushima , for instance , the bill will include the costs of hundreds of workers ’ heroic efforts to cool off plant reactors ; the protracted loss of total economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 trillion by roubini worldwide of economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing the 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . in addition , the supposed “ cost savings ” of the nuclear powers never involve the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency cleaning up and remediation of unacted communities when catastrophes occur – everyone again at the expense of taxpayers . come the governments – and hence taxpayers and bondholders – that fund nuclear plants . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy higher than the price of shifting to renewables and improvements in energy efficiency . come the top of it all comes from access to health-care costs .
as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by denouncing the trump camp as yet another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” at the same time , they , too , would have been stifling debate . this would run counter to what us universities stand for . but there are clear rules of engagement with the eu that are needed . the most important overarching principle to trump is the distinction between listening and honoring someone .
new york – like inmate on a death row , europeans have received another , last-minute , for their execution . the markets are celebrating , as they have in the wake of each of the four previous european crisis ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” – until they have come to understand that the fundamental problems have yet to begin with . there was good news at this summit : european leaders at long last understood that the bootstrap operation by whom europe lends money to distressed banks ; and sovereigns to rescue the banks in order to rescue the banks , and to rescue the banks , will not work . likewise , they now recognize that the bailout loans that give the new lender seniority over other lenders worsen to hold private investors , who will simply want to demand even higher interest rates . it will survive a little longer and for a while .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” ( omt ) program . thousands of germans have appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty of working with the european union , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments and imposes substantial risks on germany as its taxpayers . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it might have done , the court asked the european court of justice for its views . indeed , the court has now declared that it fully approves the prosecutors ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary legislation . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to buy if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided the affected countries subscribe to the european rescue fund ’s rules , the european stability mechanism .
and capital-gains taxes have fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . and capital-gains taxes have dropped by more than 50 % since the 1980s . for example , some of the government-to-investment profits of tesla might have recovered through shares ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment carried out in solyndra . but other options could be forced to create alternative incentives to provide the needed reforms . to build public investment on higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return by channeling profits into a public innovation fund to finance the next technology-driven wave .
complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams of its own , the european parliament sitting a new generation of politicians who have committed no part in prior compromises and reforms . by contrast , many will have been elected in a political environment of rage , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . unless the ecb ’s next leaders come together , the euro itself will come at risk . apparently , with zero lower bound on interest rates , more monetarist fiscal-policy coordination will be a must . still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability .
we have all heard the accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russians ’ content on its network , including posts and paid advertisements , had reached 126 million americans , some 40 % of the nation ’s population . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for effective leadership , and the traditional political and military organization retained the upper hand . we should recall earlier accusations by russia of western behavior in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia . in fact , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends .
in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei both the financial and political backing of a victory in the presidency . but he is not immune from miscalculation , either . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei also regrets permitting the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november . today , by contrast , khamenei is profoundly regretful to that choice . ahmadinejad has disobeys his orders , seeking to disband him with the public by challenging his authority , undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament .
but it is far from clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own longstanding lodestar interests . similar issues apply to the us and india , india and brazil are closely protected . and it is not only the developing and emerging countries that need to reconsider their approaches to the world . to get us to work , the us needs to do just that . it is far from clear , however , whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests .
some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or simply having been lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . but i do n’t see what the alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely aligned with their kin ’ profound moral or other merit . the challenges that can be addressed include poverty and social insurance — providing a safety net not of inequality . nor should we worry a great deal that some people are becoming richer than other people . but on the level of individual societies , i believe that inequality loom as a serious political-economic problem .
there is also some friction among different regulators in america , and we surely need more coordination across national boundaries – including with europe . this needs to be done as technical matters rather than as part of the political process . more broadly , however , her point is that the us needs the fsoc to get its job done – look to and assess all sorts of potential systemic risk . this needs , in fact , to be far more technical , not as part of the political process . but the real danger is that the powerful lobbies , working through the members of congress , are pushing back hard against the fcc and its mandate .
at the same time , iohannis may have benefited , to some degree , from an alliance in polish voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings who had ruled romania wisely and with dedication to more than 80 years . in bucharest ’s college square , the celebration recalled power in 1989 ; the sound of an arousing electorate was the sound of a wake-up call and ready for a fresh start . and , indeed , on learning of his victory , iohannis promptly paid a visit to royal michael i ( hohenzollern prince until just renounced the title in 2011 ) . a final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation , in whom connections with the western world imbued an eagerness to see real democratic advancement in romania . when the results were announced , their euphoria has been overwhelming .
education in the social sciences and the humanities is particularly deficient , owing to a lack of investment in such disciplines , as well as to excessive policy control over curricula . while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive condescension , the country ’s college-quality system does an age-old job cultivating the talents . educating in the social sciences and the humanities is especially deficient , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control of curricula . as a result , chinese graduating from us colleges and universities have learned relatively little from outside fields like the anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china reform its ossified system , the country will lack enough highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest .
such reforms will create new markets , stimulate competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . meanwhile , imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . japan has committed to further liberalization of its own markets under the wto . at the same time , the export-led expansion has delivered growth this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) , led to rising productivity in japan . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring upon japan .
i believe that the west can learn a great deal of what to do by studying the policies pursued in one of the only two mid-development moslem states of the world , tunisia , and indonesia , precisely because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . both countries combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive export ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . an egalitarian evolution of this kind is the only viable answer to a beslem world ’s mal-development problems . but it provides no short-run answers to terrorism , for several reasons : it does not deliver compelling ideology enough to compete with the kind of fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in a mam world . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its proximity to a violence-prone algeria .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflationary surprises go hand in hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy , gotten ahead just when it was up to the task . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was basically unchanged , holding , at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . for a american economy that is widely presumed to be approaching the hallowed ground of full employment , this coming just as a rude awakening – especially toward the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues in japan .
after the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , however , the colonization of much of asia , together with the opium wars in china , their relative positions have switched for grabs . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen comptes the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue in the twentieth century ’s bc buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts the religious tolerance preached and cloistered practiced by muslim imperial akbar in 1590 ’s ’s ’s ’s place with a latter-day inquisition that sat hindus into europe all over the same time . our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west should also be rethought .
yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets developed did those with stakes in them press for better legislation to protect investors . japan had no corporate law until complex business finance started to evolve in the late nineteenth century . so , in britain , switzerland , japan , and the us , something more foundational was left before financial markets started operating . britain and japan , it seems , have followed the same sequence : finance first , protection institutions later . the basic protective law institutions for outside of finance , federalized securities laws , did not drop in the 1930s – a decade after america ’s financial markets grew to finance america ’s economic rise .
in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annualized per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the other fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . but , by 2007 , greece was spending just over 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , the largest such gap in europe – more than twice that of spain and 55 % above ireland ’s . inadequate spending was never an issue , either . in spain and ireland , although the gap reflected a construction boom ; euro accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by reducing the discretion of elected representatives . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . it may or may be up to elected politicians to define an inflation target , but the means deployed so that they can reach that target have been left to authority over central-bank technocrats . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and must provide accountants when the targets are missed . well-functioning democracies often delegate wholeheartedly to quasi-independent positions when issues are technical and hold up distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for everyone ; or when policies succumb to an myopia , with heavy discounting of the future costs .
first , it is important to recognize that a strong and excessively volatile currency is not simply the central bank ’s ’s problem for fixing . sustaining a competitive currency requires increasing domestic saving relative to investment or reducing national expenditure relative to income . this means running substantial responsibilities for the fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the kind necessary for a real exchange-rate depreciation . otherwise , it would be offset by rising inflation . while the central bank bears a good portion of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of its government , most notably from the ministry of finance .
but the true significance of jolie ’s story is its context : waves of female and male behavior , in very different settings around the world who are insisting on narrating its own meanings for events involving their bodies , events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or guilt . jolie has refused to treat the mastectomy as deeply terrifying or tragic , or as making her “ less female ” is at all events . one can be unreasonably certain ; on the contrary , jolie ’s decision varies the roles at which she has been accessible to her as the actress . as enthusiastically as the global mass media have had her choice , this is nonetheless extremely difficult in western standing for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – much less “ flawed , ” or “ impaired , ” – as well as in some way of her fantasy sex object . there is something about the narrative , the sex line , sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the good of her children , with her husband staying by her party , that is profoundly reassuring to women in western culture .
some depreciation can be managed by most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if the domestic currency loses too little value too quickly . while a large net central-bank reserves can help ease that process , a large-scale central-bank reserves can help ease that process . to prevent such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate has to be managed – and , in a way , depends upon a country , in specific circumstances . private-sector balance-sheet difficulties would weaken the financial sector , with the resulting constraint on government deficits enjoying austerity , thereby stalling consumer demand and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . it is this danger that sets the practical and policy cap on a flexible exchange rate .
the limits of free speech are not just legitimate . free speech has a stronger grip on law in the us than any other country in the world . to be sure , people tend to get fired , for commercial reasons if something supposedly deemed offensive to be at large numbers of people . but barr ’s cancellation of this show was , of course , not a legal choice . entertainment companies , or the mass media , are susceptible to public opinion .
it portrays the arab world lagging far behind other regions in key measures , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as in economic and social advancement . in the summer of 2002 , an arab scholar produced an arab commission on human development , written on behalf of the un development agenda and the arab fund for economic and social development . upsetting trends , such as the arab economic youth “ bulge ” , put together high youth unemployment rates – reaching nearly 40 % in some places – highlight potentially explosive socioeconomic conditions . as is true today , not one holds a muslim majority ; it is the experience that has always been called the last one . as is true today , this phenomenon has been as visible worldwide .
then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe embraced a staunch transatlantic orientation . then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe embraced a staunch transatlantic orientation . institutionally , this power-sharing of labor was manifested in nato and the eu , respectively . on both the economic and technological front , however , europeans regained full sovereignty . on the security front , europe remained dependent on nato .
he soon sponsored an unveiling of a bust of assassinated israeli premier yitzak rabin in transylvania . for the occasion , tudor wore yarmulke and spoken of his " philadelphia o-semitism " for more than two hours . he had announced that he had been recruiting eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his own presidential campaign . " tudor , however , did not stop with the prolix apologizing . jews " were not his enemies any more , he told them .
in kenya , for example , a leading local paper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from national youth service . further investigations into the nys have exposed more corrupt deals , charging kenyans to take to the streets in protest . and the independent community of investigative journalists in africa has frequently subjected to high-level malfeasance , abuses of power , and shady business deals . but those with power know how to fight back are pulling their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being compromised , suppressed , and even dismantled .
china ’s economy has succeeded by trial and error , and the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , to be used to drive the next stage of economic reform . one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state-owned ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the marketplace ( rather than the state ) that will identify and promote unicorns . yet , just as the government determines how to offload its massive holdings of share stakes in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts are financed with equity , not leverage , thereby deepening the market ’s balance and resilience . nevertheless , as a result , china has already started building a more innovative manufacturing sector and a internet-driven retail sector , with the state able to play a role in fostering innovation .
his abrupt departure because of illness may produce a political vacuum , which may become tantamount to a power grab in one form or another , such as a military coup . his abrupt departure because of illness may create a political vacuum , which may become tantamount to a power grab in one form or another , like a military coup . here , lack of freedom of media is particularly alarming and empathic , and leaves well felt by free and fair elections . the recent assault on the globovision , venezuelan only surviving an independent station , stands out in this regard . it is crucial that the opposition can credibly air its message and target prospective voters – a point that has not lost to the chávez regime as it attempts to subvert further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate .
during the 1990s , private investors looked at big , lumbering up central banks as cash cows , long on cash , and short on financial acumen . george soros once made billions of dollars away from the bank of england in a single hour . what a difference a decade makes , in fact , do . what a difference a dozen years makes , if not all , do . his fundamental strategy was the standard one : bet against any central banker who tries to defend uninconsistent macroeconomic policies .
yet , contrary to expectations , growth in household consumption has remained lackluster , and companies have not ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp has barely exceeded the level it pledged at the end of last year , driven largely by the growth being produced but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cold winter – sits so thin that everyone should perhaps see through it . but there is another side to what it takes : in their homes and workplaces , there is missing the feeling of excitement in the future , despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now surrounds them . american consumers remain scarred by the crisis ; on the contrary , they are increasingly sophisticated .
to succeed , over € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , a combination of heat and power systems , and the storage technology of the coming decades . moreover , bringing germany ’s ’s ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband backbone , up to international standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework might help to spur . while some of this money will come from public budgets , the vast majority will have to be delivered by the private sector . nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more apparent than in germany ’s own energiewende ( energy transition ) . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband backbone , up to international standards , will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework might help to spur .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states in becoming the world ’s largest economy ? but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , points out that global economic leadership will pass on china in 2014 . more radically , however , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china has effectively overtaken the us in ppp terms . the international monetary fund recently predicted the size of china ’s us economy to overtake america ’s in purchasing-power-parity terms ( ppp ) by 2016 . purchasing power parity measures a country using a country ’s income set of international prices applied to all its economy .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both individual sensitivity and vulnerability . america might be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but the oil is a fungible commodity , and america ’s economy will remain sensitive to shocks from sudden shifts in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockage of the strait of hormuz , could still inflict damage on america and its allies . but one should not trump ’s conclusions , either . the balance of power between energy imports and exports is only the most recent approximation of independence .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the amazon and the indonesian rainforests are burning , and , like typhoons , toronto , floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . after all , iran and the us have been already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the amazon and the indonesian rainforests are burning , and , like typhoons , toronto , is intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations .
but this does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . that downturn is complex : an economic crisis combined with a financial crisis . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the intense actions it made toward revitalizing the global economy . the bottom may come close , perhaps by the end of the year .
in seizing the opportunities of globalization , firms have often neglected the developed-global workers they leave behind , while also delegating developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . in my own career , i have seen firsthand that trade-driven growth in a globalizing world can do far more to fight poverty , hunger , and disease than campaign-finance programs alone . tackling the world ’s ecological and ecological challenges and improving the lot of those left behind will require public action , like overseeing at my roles at the un , the un , and the brics governments of britain . but when that competition does not go responsibly , the opposite can happen , and , in many cases , it does have .
and because it would overturn the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching remaining against the eu no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparage opponents into offsetting their differences in order to suspend a no-deal brexit . but whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics . in fact , many leavers were willing to see it as an anti-democratic coup . but it would be an incendiary move in the eu , and could be an incendiary move to do so .
the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for consequence . to support such efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative to the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensuring that the full sdg 14 potential is realized . in doing so , the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect . the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for consequence . to support such efforts , we are urging un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a un special representative for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that the full sdg 14 potential is realized .
that is only the past year for which the official data on farm-suicides are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have been growing ever since . day wage workers , who were traditionally priced in cash , lost their jobs to one million because the replacement currency did not print in adequate numbers . when crops fall , many farmers and agricultural laborers laid low by crushing debt burdens ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that is the past year for which the official figures on farm-suicides are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have since grown since . in india , the bjp government ’s greatest victims of agricultural neglect have held the country ’s small and marginal farmers , as well as landless farm labor .
and there is one clear measure about how we perform at this task : extinction rates . bird extinctions are our best window onto mankind ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . there may be ten or perhaps even 100 other previously unknown animal species , many of them making it possible to do so . with six more humans and reckoning – and our individual consumption is growing – we are facing immense challenges to use our natural resources sustainably . this is why some colleagues and i have calculated rates at which bird species became extinct in their recent history , and rates at which they are likely to become extinct in their future .
cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach us . indeed , when it comes to enhancing energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per unit of energy on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the top man-made machines . today , computers consume around 10 % of the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s electricity output , according to marks mills , ceo of the digital power group . and , last – perhaps most importantly – they allow their user to sense the patterns and opportunities that would be impossible to discover via traditional means . with systems to grow in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture seems to have reached its limits as the ability to consume soars and transmission delay among components becomes ever more burdensome .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . while the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries is at just 2 % , most recently published by the international monetary fund ’s statistics , from last april , show a share of 11 % for spain , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk disparity and move ahead with schedule , balance sheets will need to be cleaned up before considering the next steps are considering . proponents of the scheme , with the ecb and the ecb ( ecb ) taking the lead , make clear that deposit insurance will avert the risk of a run on banks in times of crisis . while this argument has its roots , the critics emphasize risk mismatch , owing to the high ratio of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries .
this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the winner takes all of them to jail – for ruthlessness . it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out , whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or the forces he wishes to exclude her from politics indefinitely . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to doing even more efficient , rather than jail for dealing with damaging opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded after a publishing report on high-level governmental corruption . she is in prison , because she has lost that hold of power .
for an innovation is what produces wealth and employment , despite -- or , rather , because of -- competition from " poor " nations . this virtuous circle continues to see globalization as ’s enemies , in reality a vicious one , encouraging exploitation of poorer and vulnerable people . and enhanced wealth in rich countries helps the poor by boosting demand for their goods . questions of universal justice and human rights enter the debate are here to stay . undeniably , there is a strong case for making universal , impartial application of values .
like italy , japan had been on a frontlines during the cold war . it is why abe was one of the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may to rush to congratulate trump on a person at one stage in 2017 . in some important ways , japan benefited greatly from america ’s having embraced it , and from the postwar constitution , which was little more than pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . but the liberal democracy that americans still boast of post-1945 installing was also hindered by american interference . constitutionally unable to engage in military adventures , except as a highly paid producer of goods during america ’s diverse asian conflicts , japan , rather like the countries of western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power .
all of this economic legerdemain magnified by televised , print , and internet journalists . but much of the issue springs from an under-briefed , undereducated , and uncurious press corps . aside from some small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone who read or listened to english-language media coverage could have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably much better for america ’s . nobel prize winners like edward prescott do not have much business examining the benefits of tax cuts , without pointing out that a revenue-raising tax cut is not a tax cut at all ; rather , a tax shift on the future – and a administrations that raise risk and discourages hoarding . the economics profession bears part of the blame for this .
so far , they have failed abysmally with institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful nation-state movements . fayyad is the first palestinian leader not to emerge from the fatah movement and may therefore grasp what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , nato , the european union ) succeeded in delivering the statehood that a people can achieve only through their own agency – what the zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” it may simply be that the palestinians are on the brink of another chapter in their history , as well as in israel ’s history and the entire region . palestinian nationalism is profoundly ingrained in the consciousness of the majority of palestinians – yet , since at least 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning of british palestinian islam into two states , jewishers have failed to move from an ideology to a cause .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also ease china ’s geostrategic fears about the korean peninsula ’s future . for centuries , china has worried that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement or to serve as an invasion route . more than three centuries later , china the qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea . likewise , in 1592 , japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi stormed the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , under the ming dynasty , china has fought alongside korea against japan .
according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or change huge but unpredictable numbers of human jobs . accordingly , disruptions to existing occupational patterns are to be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to automation-driven job requirements . but ai is an slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . the “ official ” narrative on technology treats accelerating change just as unavoidable is always the case . at the same time , embracing new technologies is seen as essential to a country ’s geopolitical , competitive success .
every nation also needs to develop strategies that offer researchers and technologists local-level employment opportunities . developing science and technological capacities is less challenging than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . yet , the ultimate impact of science and technology rests on all three factors . first , develop , sustain , and capitalize on local capabilities and management . so african nations must invest in science and technology education and skills training .
a code of conduct on the field – where we expect players to hand over all of them under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by autonomous referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . fifa is as complex as any big multinational or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect this code of conduct . and this is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to recede from view . they need to be addressed head-on , with the clean-up of its leadership and a complete overhaul of its governance structure . in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to adhere to this code of conduct .
in the west , young people have largely dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers , instead catch up on news items whenever they elect , using tablets , laptops , or cellphones . in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by more than 20 % since 2001 . likewise , because ad revenues have been vacuous , online giants facebook and google , newspapers ’ profits have plunged . in the last few years , the industry has faced multiple bankruptcies , with those still operating often establishing large numbers of employees , particularly in their foreign bureaus . even several grand titles have either closed down or made known solely online .
people came out of the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile in the aftermath of its 1973 bombing campaign , and iran after its 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge at any time , far less during an era of profound economic crises . but things were still turning out well : bosnian serb immigrants fared roughly as well as swedes who received them and even enriched our societies . in the new century , refugee flows increasingly came from the middle east and the horn of africa . for decades , swedish industries depended on an immigrant workforce .
another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely the benelux , the benelux , the baltic and the nordic countries – rank well above america in so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” ” ” ” ” which covers it infrastructure , internet access , as well as firms , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . indeed , one-third of these firms have acquired a tech company since early 2015 . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . moreover , foreign firms are rushing to divest from european tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion happened last year , compared to just $ 3.3 billion in 2014 , including softbank ’s purchases of the british <UNK> tor-arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchases of nxp semiconductors .
as such , the “ china dream ” of the communist party is no exception . it has risen to the top by winning back friends and allies inside the ccp . so far , the public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade of rule by slogan , the substance of the chinese public wants the substance . this presents xi with a real challenge .
in the us , chinese president mitt romney has just took office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being excessively soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of european financial contagion , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , and the abrupt flood of lower-priced us imports from china leave the romney administration in a bind . the demonstrations begin in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . against the advice of his council of economic advisers , he announces across-the-board import duties on chinese exports . china ’s government decides that it can not risk whatsoever strife and announces a stop-go package to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including the outright financial backing of exporters and interventions in currency markets to weaken the renminbi .
that power surely explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were not stronger , and why there is so much opposition now to effective implementation of that legislation ( for example , there is now an enormous struggle around the “ volcker rule , ” which would rein in proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but the mortgage lenders ’ nefarious activities are another matter . why , for example , would the us administration continue to flex over backwards to lenient toward top bankers under such circumstances ? i certainly do not believe that the us administration ’s board of directors reflects any form of corruption , payments made to individuals , or even politicians campaigns . and , indeed , that does not even appear to reflect the lobbying power of big financial players .
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its defining features in syria today . like bosnia , syria appears hopelessly divided among warring factions , and the level of violence there appears to be unstoppable . around the world , the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , far fewer agreement on a way forward . to be sure , there are some important differences as well . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia , including efforts in belgrade , to realize concepts of universal justice , have applications in the contemporary world .
iran ’s holdings of precision-strike capabilities , for example , and a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerability . moreover , given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign interference , a unilateral us effort to retain overwhelming offensive superiority would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms-control race . certain american strategists advocate a largely technocratic solution to this dilemma . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of the air-sea battle against any particular country at all . their approaches , a concept known as the inter-korean struggle , implies a mix of defensive and offensive instruments to meet the new challenges posed by proliferation of precision-strike weaponry .
ms. watanabe has a talent for seeing how the tide turns . should she assume an important role in this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe provides a talent for her daughter for seeing the tide turns . ms. watanabe has a talent for seeing how that tide turns .
while we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing on chernobyl , the us sets western nuclear-safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf via the extended program of finance . a positive sign here is the recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million of the world ’s nuclear-power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , to compensate for the loss of chernobyl on generating capacity . the euroatom also helps , with a $ 585 million loan to fund repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear-power plants . as a practical matter , international support for our efforts is crucial .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy but the revolutionary agitation . naturally , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy but the revolutionary agitation of the soviet era . accordingly , russia ’s people wanted to make a difference and oddly them did : their energy and cohesion had put an end to communist rule . outside that sea of democratic emotions new political institutions were expected to emerge . indeed , while there is nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between the state and society resembles the end of the soviet era .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly precarious . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew phenomena but failed to grasp their interactions , in part because policymakers and analysts were reluctant to foreswear anticipated : the familiar is kept stable , even when one is known to be problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard itself as an island of “ stability . ” ) almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , though their political and socioeconomic causal factors were well known . but some initial lessons to international politics go awry , and to the west , especially european foreign policy , merit serious consideration .
when the market was tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to soar , triggering new market-based challenges of the reform process . in order to resolve this , the authorities announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues among the central and local governments and allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . but , because china is a net lender of the world , lgfv debt does not have any global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its landmass and fixed assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion , implying that even if asset values were written down by one-half , local governments remain solvent . in addition , this leaves only the issue of debt-servicing difficulties .
but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the run-up to the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer be deflected by invoking impersonal economic laws . the domination of crisis-stricken free-market ideology allowed many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go near-unchallenged . “ progressive ” social-democratic liberalism and the “ conservative , free-market ” free-market economics appeared as two sides of the same coin . but if social-democratic change can no longer be legitimized as the imperative for economic progress , then democracies now seem unlikely to vote to reinstate pre-the pre-ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . both racial and gender equality are now backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , or most european countries , and even apparently popular policies like trade protectionism and tight immigration controls rarely occupy more than 30-40 % of support in opinion surveys .
as we predicted nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to restore growth above 5 % over the 2021-2030 period – the simple reason that its working-age population will have peaked . while the pessimists will no doubt find validation for further chinese growth disappointments to come , optimists can point out that 5 % annual gdp growth in china is nominally equal by 15-20 % growth in germany . it is just as predictable that india starts to grow at a much faster pace than china , simply because its labor force still has much of the growing left to do . the real question is whether india can implement robust productivity-enhancing reforms . at this stage in china ’s development , faster gdp growth would indeed appear fairly extraordinary .
moreover , his contextual intelligence on world politics has been shaped from the bottom up in recent years in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american politics has been shaped from the bottom up as an organized community organizer in chicago . obama has continued to demonstrate such leadership skills in his almost flawless transition . by choosing his chief opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state and reaches across party lines to keep robert gates as secretary of defense , has shown openness to strong subordinates . equally important is contextual intelligence , which allows a leader to vary the mix of such capabilities across situations to produce successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skill sets in his calm response to crises , his forward-looking vision , and his superb organizational skill .
eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawn , pakistan ’s largest-circulation paper , “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . ” internationally , [ it ] diminished the country ’s stature and left its reputation smeared . with pakistan ’s economy mired in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad in so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . ” domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . even its spiritual development was warped by the proliferation , populating , and growing relative power … of religious groups representing an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam .
moreover , gref ’s program attempts to build effective private-equity ownership . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , through deregulation and stimulating competition . deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” really do ) make life easy for new ventures by reducing the number of inspections brought by bureaucrats , and by decreasing the number of demands of licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also large sources of bribery cases ) . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and safeguarding property rights , deregulation , and encouraging competition . enhancing competition will mean placing the emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies .
the pattern is starting to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , a muddled response , debates and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step moves toward a joint response driven by the realization that no other alternative exists . in today ’s disagreements , disagreements lie at the root of a reinvigorated union . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract struggle to forge an ever-closer union . indeed , the eu ’s peoples are waking up to a world that has become more dangerous , divided , divided , and disorienting . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical , and absolutely crucial , mechanism for a group of small countries to work together toward their shared challenges .
muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous attitude during a uprising has exposed his true colors , regardless of his messier posture in recent years . sir howard davies chose to resign as director of the lse , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , taking money to school from the libyan regime . there is a strong sentiment that academics and institutions colluded with such a odious regime , often with the encouragement of their governments , no doubt , suffered the grave lapse of judgment . in other words , would i follow in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues , who traveled to libya to exchange its views with and advise its dictator and have paid off for their services ? such scholars have been pilloried in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi .
thus , eight days prior to the vote , the us sent russia warnings about election meddling over a hotline – created three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – that link the centers of the two countries ’ nuclear risk-reduction centers . because russian hacking activity appeared to slow or halt , the obama administration cited the warning as an exercise in deterrence . in a 2016 speech , obama confronted difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of react to cyber measures , or cross-sectoral responses like sanctions . the administration had been unwilling to take steps that might themselves have disrupted the election . but , for a number of critics , the russians had already achieved their primary goals .
an injection of funding , supporting a common strategy that was developed in partnership with governments would enable the immediate delivery of education in emergencies . in a more protracted crisis like that of syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s support , a long-term financing strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay in principal more than 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . as long as this initiative was made prior to the earthquake in ecuador , it could provide 12 months of emergency aid , helping the country until it could reinreinstate education according to its domestic plans . as long as it is established , support would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans to provide education to children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be approached in silos . as a result , the fund would fill the gap in institutional coordination and provision of services by strengthening the system at its weakest points , providing a bridge to longer-term development .
for all of its deep emotional attachment to the idea of israel embracing all of the historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure borders was to embrace a palestinian state alongside it , just as secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as the capital , finding a mutually palatable solution to the enormously sensitive question of returning palestinian refugees . rabin ’s killing was a catastrophe from which the peace process never recovered . they would share jerusalem as the capital , finding a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive question of returning to palestinian refugees . both ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but nowhere near enough .
some might think that this could be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent lives were there to be a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . as one example , they view a phenomenon that even beer drinkers have long been aware . instead , they differentiate between matter and energy , and say that matter organized in structures disseminating power gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or freneider ) and turn it up , the water will emerge in an uneven glugs .
the notion of argentina as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , the title given to those who vanished into the 1970 ’s ’s ’s dirty war . we lost our organization ’s principle , and no other idea replaced it . we no longer had any guide , ideas about how to think about our country , how to comprehend it , and how to imagine who we are and whom we can become . it has not been easy to live without knowing who we are , and it has become even harder to live this way as we watched our world crumble . for our world , argentina has become a country without direction .
indeed , america ’s other accounts of global war on terror also make it clear that many of those who have been detained and tortured have not been threats to america ’s ’s security – at least not until america ’s actions have made them so secure . for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on america ’s value in a “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama halted ) , despite the us senate report ’s conclusion that the techniques it recruits yielded no precious intelligence . a week at the us senate report emerged , anand gaffal ’s new book no good men among living there , which tells contemporary afghanistan ’s ’s story through the sights of former president hamid karzai , the taliban commander and the kabul-born housewife who had spent years at purdah at the taliban country . over and above , a similar story plays out : local power-broker is willing , even eager , support for the new us-backed us government , only to be denounced as taliban member by a fellow afghan – typically for local , political , or personal reasons – to unwitting america ’s troops . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone who has lived in afghanistan , spoke the language , and understanding the workings of patronage and power there .
replacing the governor whom they were re-elected only one year before with arnold schwarzenegger has to give californian voters an enormous – if guilty – pleasure . some members of the opposition in germany would dearly love to do the same to chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they did n’t ( yet ! ) have found a movie star to replace him . beyond europe this applies even to the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter have called a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . the electoral success , it seems , fades fast nowadays . several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar position to peripheral , deep nowadays .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to resource-allocation capabilities and lowering transaction costs . and , in 2015 , the us authorities – made in china 2025 ” and the “ internet plus ” initiatives – signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the “ web age . ” and , at the same time , the world ’s “ opening-up dividend ” has been reaching maturity as well , by upending protectionist barriers around the world . still , china can still tap new markets through efforts like the world ’s “ belt and road initiative , ” but at significant cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continuing to advance the global value chain , by pursuing deeper economic reforms and concentrating on new technology .
little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would consider genuine access to electricity . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . and it wo n’t help combat the world as the world ’s largest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which tends to be caused largely by open-ended fires fueled by timber , cardboard , and dung , by claiming an additional 3.8 million lives annually . perhaps not surprisingly , a first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor found , there has been no measurable impact on their lives : it has failed to raise savings or spending ; it has failed to work more or start more businesses ; and their children have not studied more . the iea expects that every of every 195 million off-grid solar people to get just 170kwh per year , or about half what one american flat-screen tv uses in a year .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive drive high rates of ncds . from 1990 to 2010 , malaria-related deaths and disability payments in low - and middle-income countries grew 300 % faster than the rate of malaria-related deaths along the way . populations of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies frequently confront both ncds and outdoor pollution , making it much less likely that they have access to adequate nutrition . most health systems in these countries are not constructed for chronic or preventive care , and lack of core consumer-protections . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption also tripled in developing countries .
both european and american debates have been replete with the posturing and testing of will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in a chicken , twin drivers race toward a reef ( or toward one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve in the face of a imminent disaster . but , provided that neither power concedes , both are destroyed by the way . rather , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . when citizens and politicians come around to view politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in .
throughout the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power and their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions still allows them largely to retreat the purview of national regulators and companies , despite the g20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-bases erosion and profit shifting . when ordinary egyptians organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , the technologies that would have necessarily reinforced democracy itself . but it soon became clear that such digital platforms could easily collaborate with authoritarian governments or terrorists , and use fake news , influencing electoral processes , and generating deep divisions and bewilderment within societies . political institutions have not kept pace with technological change and the resulting market growth . and biotechnology , too , will pose enormous challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening enables parents to choose ” embryos with desired characteristics .
but the federal government supports research as a percentage of gdp now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . raising living standards in the us , for example , is the product of technological innovations that in turn depends on basic research . solving the panoply of other problems confronting america will require more federal income , not fewer . while trump , a contender , has criticized the growth of america ’s national debt , now proposes tax cuts that add trillions of dollars to us debt in just the next ten years , not the nearly $ 1.5 trillion that republicans say will add up , owing to some growth miracle that leads to more tax revenue . still , a key lesson of ronald reagan ’s era of “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these lead not to faster growth , but merely to lower revenues .
obama can use his state of the union message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy of cutting the fiscal deficit to sustainable levels . while this will most likely lack the public option many in the us favor , this still represents a true outcome . the same middle-of-the-road approach can take place in the latter year to address outstanding fiscal issues . this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent board to subject congress to amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and expenditure reform . but obama needs stronger leadership on financial-sector reform , where , as with the health-care system , a welter of conflicting submissions emerges .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s newest battleground in a contest between two models of democracy – both liberal and illiberal . the crushing election victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more similar to regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . in response , the european commission launched official investigations into potential breaches of eu norms ’ rule-of-law standards . furthermore , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time ever , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from a “ bbc + , ” warning of possibly more cuts to come as it accuses the government of weakening “ the autonomy and effectiveness of key institutions . ” prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration shelled polish civil service ( including community radio and tv ) , packaged a constitutional court with sympathizers , weakened the courts ’ capacity to strike down laws .
furthermore , in the shiite tradition , the mahdi ’s strategy , shiite messiah , will be to terrorize all his enemies upon his return to the city of korea . thus , it does not appear that external forces pose little threat to the world . the regime appears to believe that there is only a small likelihood of a military strike on its nuclear program . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing is more frightening to khamenei and islamic republic ’s leaders than the social dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing inside the country . it does not believe that us sanctions could bring about its own meltdown .
ever since , the country could have been put together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with the shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts all put down in the bloody fashions of the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , a modern iraq has always been the most repressive populations in the arab world . for their own political reasons , the west imposed sunni arabs , never more than 25 % of the population , in control of the whole country , and even annexed the sunni arab hashemite crown prince in order to rule over the establishment of them . it was this sunni hegemony – and not merely that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime , which was overthrown by the united states . saddam ’s rule emerged only from the most brute force in the long line of sunni regimes .
proteins that keep the same function across very different species – generally the case of orthologs – are expected to keep the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that manufactures protein chains in these orthologs can vary dramatically . occasionally the scale of the sequence of identity between two orthologs can be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain , strikingly so , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . this protein conservation fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is also known that humans ' extra number is deceptively small , just one order of magnitude greater than , say , rice . if the structure of proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexity derived ?
similarly , georgia ’s inability to manage relations with its one autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire little confidence in himself . adzhar people view georgia , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government to ensure that how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their georgian relations would work out any better ? georgia ’s current economic collapse provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed , independent republics to support reunification . yet he is unlikely to abstain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . georgia ’s current economic collapse provides little impetus for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to bolster reunification .
moreover , the scots , the welsh , and the irish have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . while socioeconomic factors have played some part in the outcome of the brexit referendum , a geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , with 55 % of voters in england backed leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern iranians voted to remain . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with divisive side-effect . brexiteer fantasies of a globalized britain are focusing squarely on english national identities , while diluting those of scotland , north irish , and welsh , who are returning to serve as junior partners , a far less magnificent and rewarding english project .
in the us , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist global breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s clean-energy system with the goal of making clean-energy cheap . the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc by acknowledging the importance of climate-change adaptation . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” ” ” the report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon procurement , r & d , and new university-private-sector innovation hubs to create an “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposal predictably sketched fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but , promisingly , promisingly , and surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of us politics , it has attracted broad encouragement and an intelligent commentary by many mainstream pundits .
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that the relative takes over it is not quite as straightforward as it seems . tackling elite interests requires , first , ingenuity . all four north african rulers have , to name more or lesser degrees , made themselves at the center of highly opaque power structure . everything in their countries depends on one person and family rather than office . the problem boils down to overcoming possible opposition – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority .
there appears to be an near-universal agreement that it should , with international pressure from kostunica to comply . many who agree that milosevic is a war criminal now think that we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade and their outcry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . but the decision may have life-and-death calculations concerning serbia 's future . the ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic was accomplished rests with serbia 's people . they brought him into power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with respect to democratic norms ; they backed him even when he led them into genocidal acts and defeat after defeat .
for starters , the us is again shifting to what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians were assured through a message from us president barack obama delivered by his israeli special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not carry out any “ provocations ” ” ” ” ” ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , the palestinians accepted that there is no written promise of this effect at all . but , on a recent trip to israel , white house advisor dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that the israelis do not embarrass their american friends . in foreign affairs , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader yasser arafat an invitation to the white house .
the chinese model combines certain of an authoritarian modernization model ’s advantages , centralized power , prompt rule by insulation from populism , and a superior capacity to implement painful but necessary reforms – with management turnover by de-personalizing political struggle . to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s lee kuan yew , for example ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the longer term , however , the democracies benefit from intrinsic , self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies , where lower-income leaders cling to power . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by the desire to retain the party , not any individual , in power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s karimov .
a dilution of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal in 1999 allowed banks to engage with so-called “ proprietary trading ” – allowing them to use depositors ’ ’ savings to do business for their own account – mostly in riskier mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two other things . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not only in the us , but throughout the g-20 – to keep banks holding at least 20-25 % of the assets in core capital . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play the leading role in making banks behave in a sensible way . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” they need to deleverage , lest taxpayers have to bail them out each time a crisis erupts .
to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would be acting responsibly would be a high-risk gamble . and make no mistake : agreement is on the whole . its collapse would unleash a nuclear-arms race in the rest of the world that is now most unstable region . iran ’s ’s ’s ’s regional foe , saudi arabia , would move swiftly toward a nuclear-related capability , using plentiful petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . the others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not fall far behind .
his scoring of schiller of poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s real global aspirations . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative land all at once . at the same time , beethoven ’s grand genius belongs not just to his native germany or even to the west , but to all people of humanity . beethoven ’s germany was re-born on the ashes of significance . beethoven ’s germany was re-born on the ashes of significance .
of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced a mere $ 10 billion . at the same time , instead , up to now at least the government has mostly been lending out ( high-interest ) loans rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . how , then , were reasonable economic policies at the outset of this crisis ? apparently , the terms presented by the us government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned a right on target . in fact , how was good for sound economic policies to prevail in this crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes over trump , the big-city mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished destinations : north korea . but to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to embrace a different us policy toward north korea . notwithstanding more than two decades of retrenchment , de-escalation on negotiations , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed akin to that the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . the us and its allies successfully navigated the challenge from europe in the twentieth century with no war . when america and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had a way of deterring the other from invading japan .
theories of `` red toryism '' might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for a european right to find its “ new look ” through selective appeals to religion – and to wait and see and see whether this works as an electoral strategy -- they should remember , however , that start a kulturkampf is playing with fire : one might flex the kulturkampf for a time ; but such passions may remain incapacitated permanently from above . this is not an absurd notion , but it is not an absurd one , at least for now . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought . but to take these traditions seriously would require much larger transformations of capitalism - than even the avowed christian democrats are prepared to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms for integrating workers into management .
postponing a second consumption-tax hike now seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . but this brings us back to japan at the expense of its many deeper problems . demand policies on their own wo n’t alone prevent two more lost decades , much less guarantee two golden ones . admittedly , the problem is in both the timing and the two tactics . fiscal sustainability requires an eventual rise in a consumption tax , and of course japan should not wait until international investors start doubting its willpower .
unusually for her , former lady laura bush talked against policies of taking children out of their mothers . usually supine congressional republicans panicked and told trump and his team that his tough-down policy can wreck their chances in november ’s midterm elections . and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his married marriage to the early lady , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to a portugal star and others for silencing ) , in exchange for political influence and appointments toward the social conservatives ’ behavior and appointments toward the supreme court and its inner judiciary . in fact , the politics of separating family members threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his own evangelical christian followers . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ”
it is the mark of a good club that people clamor for becoming their members . but eu membership does not entail the estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will stimulate russia ’s imperial ambitions . this , in turn , reduces russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full-fledged democracy , because it can govern an empire only as a militarized state . an ever-larger eu includes ukraine would establish a political force with a vast population , furthering the union ’s ambitions to project power as a global power .
anyone visiting the greek cypriot side with israel nowadays wo n’t find refugee camps : indeed , most of the millions are tourists unaware that more than one-third of the greek cypriots they join are the refugees or the offspring of refugees . indeed , as in post-world war ii west germany , much of today ’s existential prosperity emanates from the economy received from the absorption of refugees . businesses were encouraged with the government ’s grants and borrowing centers . within the next few years alone , the refugee population has been absorbed into the economy and society of the south , the greek-turkish cypriot sector of the island . with schools and training centers that were established , such firms have been created .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , at 7 % per annum since 2000 , may well have sapped the poverty in the country 's war-torn central south ; but in the northeastern region , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have reappeared . add to that inequality , declining public trust fuels a rebellion against globalization and democracy . it ’s not hard to see why , and that ’s where . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer , because they are not kept in on the same regulations as everyone else ’s . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer , because they are not kept at the same regulations as everyone else ’s .
indeed , not only has that revived cold war-era tactics to send us military aircraft unannounced in airspace to the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also produced veiled nuclear threats against “ nato ” countries like denmark . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is one country with enough missiles and missile warheads to bring down america ’s nuclear capabilities . russia ’s officers , it has announced , directly direct large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of the important debaltseve transport center in february . as its economic and geopolitical influence has waned , so , too , has its readiness to regard renouncing its nuclear status .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err by hope than by being right with despair . ” for the moment , it remains doubtful that a model will prevail . authoritarians and populists have yet to triumph , and , in many places , christian democrats continue to struggle with each other . or , to put it less optimistically , even democracy and autocracy still have similar chances of being decaying . contrary to what many democratic cassandras to think , the worst is not inevitable .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the treaty , voluntarily . one might dismiss this dispute as if it were mere rhetoric . at its core , there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . but , by using talmudic reasoning , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to place pressure on the parties to extract superior voluntary outcomes . one argued that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 comes under growing scrutiny . as abenomics was put in place , japan ’s labor market has fared much better : 1.5 million new jobs have been created and unemployment has fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenue rising more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) in excess of cn ¥ 4 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . nonetheless , japan ’s current travails , which have brought the concomitant decline in japan ’s stock-market value , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , 24 % , over the last year , against the major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which entailed substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it .
milan – the worst of a financial/economic crisis appears to have come to an end . growth in the united states , and parts of europe , has bounced back . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but it has been counterpart to rising public-sector deficits and debts ever since . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but it has been counterpart to rising public-sector deficits and bad debts . asset markets have performed reasonably well in the summer of 2010 .
in a world of sovereigns , does it prove hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons and deny others ? perhaps they argue that all of them were required to do so , or none at all . but history depends upon the pathways that were taken in the past . in a world of sovereigns , does it prove hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons , denying them even others ? suppose it was 1939 , with states debating whether america should invent the bomb .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from an manufacturing-driven and export-led economy to one that underpins services , and domestic consumption is well under way . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the global economy ’s future . china ’s retailing markets have reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . at the same time , household consumption has started to climb , even as the pace of investment has plummeted , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s cleverest book business sector by fung business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences charts the change .
the global market for such stimulants is widely estimated at $ 65 billion , with approximately $ 100 billion . part of the attraction of such synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , accessible , and convenient to use ( no one has to shoot themselves , snort , or smoke ) . but what goes up needs to come down ? amphetamines greatly increase the way the body works : users experience increased trust , ethical , and energy . that buzz is judged as innocuous : using pills does not kill or spreading hiv/aids , ” ” ” ” ” it says .
attempts have been made ever since to investigate systematically and document the environmental consequences of wars . unfortunately , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , sierra leone , and ivory coast -- have so far failed to receive the attention they demanded . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of these wars ? first of all the effects depend on the type of war and type . studies of the balkan wars , and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990s , have been launched through an international organization such as the un environment programme ( unep ) .
paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the passage of a major franco-german initiative , has come once again . whatever their economic conditions , or the trust of the eu , at least – or lack of it – in each other , france and germany are more than ever collectively accountable for the future , if not its very survival , of the european project . are there alternatives to the franco-german leadership of the european union ? joining great britain with them in a club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . for europe , britain has largely excluded itself .
chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts those fears to rest . when the former government lost the voting that past could , and singh ’s government came into office , fears emerged that singh would be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners who demanded that market reforms be dismantled as the prices of their participation within the new ruling coalition . upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought in government an experienced , internationally renowned team , including finance minister pierre ambaram , who served successfully as minister of the mid 1990 ’s , as well as dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads the planning committee , a key body , assessing india ’s medium-term public investment strategies . the document provides a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine the full-speed ahead of market-oriented reforms with the urgent need for poverty reduction . in short , the budget is a model for everyone in developing countries .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular gdp growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp rose 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . this is history now : actual per capita gdp growth was only 0.2 % at the end of ukraine and just 1.3 % in russia . for starters , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia ’s economies may ultimately be behind the recent war there . discontent generated by such disappointment may help explain ukrainian separatists ’ rage , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and prop up separatists . and , in fact , such fears may have severe repercussions , even if they do .
which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? fourth , the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy needs to be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must become a supranational one , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity , and thus a shared interest to be asserted and defended . so how can we narrow current differences in trend developments and material well-being within europe ?
barcelona – after world war i made refugees , forced from their homelands by enemy occupation or broader , an international regime was developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is underway , and this time is europe , having the power to provide a safe haven to desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people made attempts to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from northern africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result , more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
american sanctions , for example , ultimately brought iran to the table just to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but the sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition ultimately backed the united nations security council , an isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after hamas annexed crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and the deployment of similar measures by the us , russia ’s largest trading partner . absent the eu ’s participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to american sanctions , they remain fragile and temporary , at best . just a year after the iran deal came into force , it is already hard to imagine that the us , china , or russia , would back further joint us action on iran , though that deal has begun to unravel .
india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) generates sudanese oil and , over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic mission will open in mali , gabon , niger , afghanistan , and burkina faso . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a unified africa divide ; it now has three : western and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with the oil sector constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner for most of asia , with india and thailand . a study by the confederation of india ’s chambers of commerce and industry identified five main industries that could act as “ engines of growth ” to boost the indo-africa trade : the pharmaceuticals and the institutes of health , information technology , water management , food processing , and education .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for talks between israel and palestine , in which engaging with actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly transnational solution . that paradigm should be extended beyond the geneva talks of the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . only with an unbalanced negotiating process guided by regional and global players can the middle east achieve a stable balance of power . to be sure , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . as a result , the objective must be clarity and equilibrium .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may mean that something , like a person or institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive . and policymakers have long had to strike the balance between an abstractions of openness and concrete action to minimize the worst effects of change . the first sense often applies to trade , investment , and technology ( while most definitions fail to match opportunity with vulnerability ) , which has always driven structural economic change , particularly respect for employment . as a practical matter , structural change can simultaneously be mutually beneficial and disruptive – and even disruptive .
so the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , leading to a host of the unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage , which i discussed in some detail in my book the sole game in the town . faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed was trying to foster growth in an environment of indirect , experimental purposes . by providing liquidity using multiple means , it raised financial asset prices well above what the economy was irretrievable . the fed hoped that it would make some segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , spurring them to spend more , encouraging firms to invest more . yet such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” proved quite feeble .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . the first relies on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients endure impairing brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , like those responsible for producing and perceiving language , can begin to function autonomously , beyond the scrutiny or influences of other brain systems . it is as if a string of an orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music , disregarding anyone else . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly chose to play its own music , disregarding everyone else .
but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal the successor treaty to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazonia and the loss of biodiversity . the agreement reached at there must be ambitious , effective , and equitable , offering wealthy nations a way to cut their greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse consequences of climate change . the very existence of some of the caribbean ’s countries , including portions of trinidad and tobago , could be endangered should sea levels rise . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss .
since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experiences . while singapore ’s political system could not readily translate into a giant country like china ’s , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china devised a sophisticated , comprehensive system to select and promote political leaders , which comprise decades of training and a battery of skilling for officials at various stages in their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that has lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . at the same time , issues like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious manifestation have made matters worse .
relations between the two allies have entered at one of these periods of tension that have flared up so far since world war ii ’s near misses . the united states vetoed reelection , advocated by france , a un secretary general rod boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of un secretary general in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of this spat was , in a somewhat paradoxical case , if one recalls that de gaulle wants to diminish just as france did possible the un ’s powers to which he contemptuously mentions “ thingamajig , ” and that america owes more than $ 1 billion in past contributions to the un . ) at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk of conferring on europe , for france ’s demands , command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean . nowadays , it seems , nothing remains of franco-american goodwill .
for example , a 2015 white house report finds that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one percentage-point drop in the gender-differentiated wage gap , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage gaps based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased trade openness is associated with lower tariffs on infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . in fact , freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . over time , freer trade ensures workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . perhaps most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which means that millions more people have lifted out of poverty .
as several commentators have noted , mainland china ’s remarkable economic rise and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as the center for finance , logistics , and retail trade . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s overseas trade ; its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth of china ’s . this far outlying shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade with the us . but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , owing largely to its holdings of state-owned insecurities .
finally , remaining within an eu customs union would make it possible to avoid reestablishing a hard border between the uk and the post-brexit republic of ireland . while may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any arrangement , she has offered only vague suggestions regarding exactly how this could actually happen . brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . the alternatives open for the eu are either to see the uk leave behind its customs union or to hold the uk into the eu , by making the political commitment to take british interests into account . from a long-time perspective , the latter is preferable .
various studies show that tall men are often favored , while corporate ceos are taller than the average . but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little more than five feet tall . seeking core traits of a dominant leader dominated the field of management studies until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse today . a tall , handsome person enters a room , drawing attention , and “ looks like a leader . ” the traits-centered approach did not shake away from leadership studies , but was broadened , making him more flexible .
witness the emigration of peoples and religions , or commerce along an antiquated silk route connecting medieval europe and asia . today , however , globalization differs in a different way , because it becomes faster and thicker . witness the emigration of peoples and religions , or commerce along an antiquated silk route connecting medieval europe and asia . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europeans and americans could communicate about it at once . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of englishman in london using the phone to orders goods from around the world that september at that afternoon to be delivered to his home by a afternoon .
an endowment or retirement fund , for example , might consider basing its payg choices more on short-term , potential shock-adjusted average return than a simple , weighted average of past returns or end-stage asset values ( a normal practice now , it is ) . of course , one can argue that post-crisis regulatory reform will ultimately resolve the problem of periodic systemic risk , turning us back to a rentier world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . meanwhile , financial innovation will proceed alongside regulatory arbitrage . but i would not bet on this happening , either . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is the persistent and resilient regulatory efforts to eliminate it .
either technology would depend on the us national electricity grid , which uses low-emissions forms of power generation such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing in the long term , alongside private investment . third , america ’s recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy to get the government ’s own finances back in order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes at a rate of three times while boosting spending on warfare . the result is a massive budget deficit , one that expands to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( just $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of a recession , bank bail-out , and short-range fiscal stimulus measures .
first , would-be observers must be autonomous , financially , and otherwise , in their relationships to a host country . second , it must be given unrestricted access to every aspect and phases of the election process , as well as to all the technologies involved in it . third , observers must face zero restrictions at meetings with all authorities and political actors . depending on a 2005 declaration on the principles of international election observations , credible surveillance requires that we meet five criteria . fourth , observers must no longer be subject to any pressure or threat of retaliation by any governments .
as listing of criteria grows longer , it becomes clear that the most easily measured components , punctuality , are , but one of many desirable features , rather than necessarily the majority . this example is relevant to the personal-service politics , which dominates debate in many countries because it lies at the heart of the big problems of the two government budgets ( and cuts them back ) and taxes ( and decreases ) . more importantly , they should be affordable and considered . they should be made to be safe , as well as reasonably comfortable , what they do . and to put it bluntly , they ought to be safe .
we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothes out of top trucks , leading to a rebellion . yet people told us that they often got away with not supplying drinking thousands of feet or below in deep forests . distributional is both haphazard and uncoordinated , doing so with little our thinking . hustlers thrive ; the weak watch , all in print . we have seen helicopters attempted aerial drops ; a landing is impossible in most places .
the information-technology revolution that brought us computers , smartphones , gps , gps , and much else has been erected on a growing number of industries , as well as government roadmaps . the example of an atomic bomb might appear an uncomfortable one , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to work together on wartime technology , should n’t we do the same thing to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , a process of “ directed technological change , ” ” ” ” in which bold goals are laid , milestones are identified , and timelines are introduced into the process is far more common than many people realize . for example , in driving up the manhattan project ( making the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , america ’s government set a remarkable technological goal , establishing a bold timetable , and committing the finance needed to get the job done . in both cases , researchers and engineers have delivered on time .
europe will most likely continue to grow weaker on this front rather than stronger on this front . to be sure , good relations with europe make them the priority for russia , particularly economic links , human connections , and social interactions . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that stands only to gain from alliances with the world economy and its political leader . russia will also reap the benefits of active foreign-policy engagement with eu leadership . but a strategic alliance with the eu in foreign and security policies remains unrealistic and inefficient .
to avoid such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . specifically , such countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose immense burdens on their economies . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 – which killed between more than 50 and 100 million people – would be even more devastating today . and with new diseases like zika , as well as the resurgence of old foes like the bubonic plague , there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , it has compounded the dangers of facilitating the spread of communicable diseases .
that would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby shoring up the super-rich ’s ability to evade taxation through a transition location . the advantage of income-tax increases is that they might rely not only on current income , but on some average of income over years , and might enable investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes , without penalizing those who have saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-planned plan legislated one or a handful of countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments start , could help to foster an international dialogue about appropriate future politics toward inequality . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable focus of our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . and , if wealth taxes are to be raised , instituting them now to take effect only on the future , and only if inequality becomes much worse , would preempt the perception that rules were changed after the game broke down .
many spent years in prison for daring to speak out against china ; and , as i grew older , i vowed to do so as well . my first stint at the chinese jail was tied to the working i started in the early 2000s , printing , and distributing tibetan-language book . i regarded these texts as important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . nevertheless , chinese authorities viewed them as challenges to their rule , punishing me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics neared them , i began to find new ways to record my people in history .
warsaw – the massive warsaw protests have made headlines around the world in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation instituted by poland ’s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age of the polish supreme court ’s conviction , effectively forcing all polish courts over the age of 65 , and allow the pis to pack its own tame injustices . the polish constitution provides for an autonomous judiciary , and sets the term for the first time the supreme court ’s president at the end of six years . that means that judges can not be removed by legislation , at least not constitutionally . yet the new law has enables polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s powers , including head justice , in 2018 alone .
the latest proof : mauricio funes , the standard-bearer of the fmln – until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement – prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that for as long as anyone remembers was ruled , by hook , or crooks , by a reactionary oligarchy . it turns out that in latin america , elections actually do shake things up . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral win is embraced peacefully , as it has done so far , so far , this implies that latin america has truly gone a long way . back in its radical days , ken livingstone , london ’s former mayor , famously quipped that if the votes changed anything , they would abolish it .
that is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new ventures requires a regulatory framework that favors genuinely enlightened and honest . the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : he puts it in perspective the term at the end of his term in 1945 : “ it 's not everyone able to call a science in the sense of knowledge on general rules : the knowledge of particular circumstances and the eu . here 's the problem : the promise of having a genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of deception . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has a benefit over all others in which he or she wields unique information about which beneficial uses might be made ; but of which the use can be made only if the decisions depending on leaving it or making with its active collaboration . “ t ] here lies beyond question the bodies of very important but non-organized knowledge , which can not possibly be labeled an scientific in a sense of general principle : the knowledge of particular circumstances and the eu .
with over 1,000 points still to be agreed , all policymakers whom i ’ve spoken have recently said that they can not see how a meaningful deal can be reached by december in copenhagen . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those immersed in the discussions . “ copenhagen man ’s 1 ” has always been bound to fail , partly because – and that may sound strange at first – it ’s all about climate change . even if some sort of communiqué is paved together in december – and the countries with elections looming , like the united kingdom , will push ahead , it is hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail or reflect properly the proper level of commitment that has the impact so desperately needed . in reality , all is gearing up behind the scenes for “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” and what those participating in the talks call “ an even greater slog . ”
more people come forward to the same conclusion , and those of us who have been championing evs as one of the solutions to climate change sounds optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . advocates of electric car sales have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 were registered in 2016 , almost half in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , with many prospective buyers remaining hesitant . that is why tackling the consumption bias must be a top priority over coming years . a few changes are needed to ensure that growth in ev usage and retail continues .
the wto ’s success in adjudication system is reflected in its widespread acceptance . targeting preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . moreover , the wto ’s gradual marginalization would erode its credibility in fulfilling its critical role as adjudicator of trade disputes . this constitutes an impressive backstop for global governance . even when wto decisions have had severe adverse effects on one trading partner , they have usually been accepted .
now that the greek government has delivered on its side of the bailout deal , it is the time that its european and international counterparts are concluding the program ’s initial revision . the energy market , most importantly , has the natural-gas market – and the tourism rentals have been liberalized , and the processes for acquiring an investment license have been streamlined . they are as if they can not grasp how the reforms can help restart an economy with deep structural challenges . all this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism by opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece over the past 30 years , and that are thus responsible for driving it away to destroy it . this leaves the government on a second front : working together with skyrocketing unemployment and put the economy back on a path toward growth .
madrid – tackling climate change represents a monumental challenge , but one leader in one of the foremost global powers keeps washing its hands of an issue . in early november , us president donald trump gave official remarks about america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby confirming a decision that he announced in 2017 . the notification came as early as the deal had allowed , and the withdrawal will become effective the day after the american presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states is becoming the only country in the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a true stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings status . commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current production , adjusted for inventory , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . far from anemic , current gdp share of us multinationals stands at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . while that is down from its peak 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth that typically place pressure on profit margins , it barely attests to the problem of chronic earnings . the trends in corporate taxes – which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 – are encouraging a similar verdict .
in england , the anti-depressants of anti-depressants now match valium at its height in its levels in 1979 . the past decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions . the widespread prescription of drugs for distressed minds always ended badly , right back into the age of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial have allowed doctors to confess that this was so . now anti-depressants -- global brands with households of households -- are the problem . it is now clear that today 's counter-depressants are not really wondering drugs that they have been touted as being .
to be sure , such measures will be unpopular with labor and the right response here is to eliminate large payroll taxes , so that money wages can rise without a offsetting shortfall in competitiveness . in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of 20 % , the same is widely expected . in chile , most high-performing economies have displayed little feedback from a currency collapse to an economic one . the best result , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy in to a much less exposed external position with big ( 50 % at least ) depreciation .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing major water-related challenges – from inadequate access and degradation to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and ecological sustainability . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and the annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 trillion , more than double the total amount of official development assistance ( oda ) . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . as world leaders design the development agenda to succeed the un ’s millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies even more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing massive human and economic costs and undermining development in poor countries .
but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication links within their communities , and thus are the most able to establish effective partnerships to resolve and resolve local issues . events in france also point to necessity , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination and that promote social equality . when such policies fail , eu citizens hold mayors accountable . but all public actors , not just police , must respond to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are well on the front lines in conduct with urban policymaking .
the u.s. example , the world 's only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . in america , welfare time is now restricted , and those who did not work for years must do so suddenly do so as well . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( put in place of tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and off . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined . in europe , however , unemployment remains a " good " work .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . roughly 16 % of total energy needs ( up to 25 % in the highly industrialized nations ) are now met with electric power . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear-power plants with net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) rallied around various national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than in early 2006 . yet , as a result of this renaissance , the world never seems to have come to pass . true , over 200 of the world ’s more than 200 states , only 30 use nuclear power .
denver – the united states constitution that turned 225 years ago is a remarkable paper : provisions of a texture written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates a presidential powers that require the “ advice and assent of the senate , ” including the nomination of top officials . the ramifications of this will be felt in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills senior positions at his second-term administration . probably nobody , 225 years ago , had any notion that the number of civil servants viewed to require the senate confirmation would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senatorial affirmation would involve a vetting process that often take years to complete . at the time , the process will not be pretty good at all .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same question of european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some efforts dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard supply security as a matter of joint concern , rather than as an issue that each country must address on its own . in response to the embargo affecting a particular country , for example , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption one out . but this sense of solidarity has consistently lacked time in the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the us department of justice under president donald trump seems to be continuing its own tradition .
hypothetically , switching off the lights for one hour would cut carbon emissions from power plants around the world . just as the united kingdom ’s onshore national grid operators have discovered , a small decline in the cost of electricity consumption does not translate into cheaper power being pumped into the grid , and so wo n’t reduce emissions . but , while everyone across the world has reduced all residential lighting , and this has translated completely into reduced co2 emissions , doing so would be the equivalent of china ’s pausing of its own co2 emissions for less than four minutes . in reality , earth hour actually causes emissions to rise . moreover , during earth hour until now , any significant drop in electricity demand will entail cutting co2 emissions during the hour , only to be offset by the surge from firing coal or gas-fired stations to rebuilding electricity supplies afterwards .
but it also apparently oversees all sorts of construction projects concerning a vast property plot adjacent to the federal security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , and the federal protection service ( sojourn ) . as long as we keep watching the scientific-money footprint , we are arriving at the prestigious russian academic academy of sciences ( ran ) that held elections last week . in the wake of the elections in the united states , in which the kremlin-backed “ membership ” candidates failed to perform well in advance , the government also announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it was then decided that to ensure “ fairness , ” ” ” ” ” ” the us government endorsed all of the candidates , despite being academics . the us institute of labor seems to center on devices that read brain activity .
airing of opinions is the cheapest way to fill a broadcasting hour ; ranting score the top trps . more fundamentally , the rush to beat television by breaking stories has weakened freelance journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence when responding to researching stories and validating claims . this reinforces the motivation of engaging in sensational speculation , however baseless , as occurred in saber rattling in september . thus , rather than provide context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are perennial headlines that spur prurience or outrage . indeed , the result has been disconcerting , to put it cruelly on hold .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided over how the next twelve months will play out over the global economy . those focused on emerging markets have been stressing accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output . others , fretting about trouble in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to view a possible “ double-dip recession . ” this is an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries put themselves in the position of some of the most generous bailouts that large financial institutions have ever seen .
one puzzling and frequently overlooked feature of france , which elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president and that now seems poised to give his political allies a powerful enough parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider italy : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just below two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . to be sure , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it is ’s ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly an equal footing with the us . yet , despite this , the eurobarometer poll repeatedly points out that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when dealing with their country ’s ’s ’s future . how is it that people who are so negative about their shared future , as a nation , go confidently building their private futures within their families ?
new york – a reception in the united states , along with thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century , attests to growing anxiety about rising inequality . piketty also sheds new light on the badly needed reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit . moreover , piketty ’s book provides a different perspective on the thirty or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii viewing this period as a historic anomaly , perhaps because the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentages . his book lends further weight to an already mushrooming body of evidence concerning a soaring share of income and wealth at its very top .
in an utterly flexible economy , that drop in measured gdp ( as well as the concomitant rise in unemployment ) might have been avoided if the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . for example , in greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some of its unemployed retailers . but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity remains constrained until enough time has passed to start to build new hotels , recreation facilities , and so on . this fall in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower importation of consumption goods , is often mistakenly perceived as something to be avoided , because it appears to suggest that output is below its “ potential . ” but online shops and car dealers can not be easily transformed into tourist attractions whose capacity remains limited until enough time has passed to build new hotels , recreation facilities , and so on .
in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to relax fiscal policy . but , this year , the un appears likely to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy , and that assumes recent political ruptures have n’t modified its fiscal orientation , reflected in statements made by the chancellor of the exchequer ’s exchequer . the output gap in the advanced economies has all but disappeared ; inflation is picking up , and world economic growth is forecast to remain its strongest since 2010 . most observers would agree that the level of government debt is uncomfortably high in many advanced economies in recent years , making it prudent for policymakers to discuss strategy to bring them down . but just when fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed call for easing , it is now being postponed once conditions seem seemingly call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period that began with the widespread diffusion of the automobile – during which one could get almost anywhere in the typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less – comes to an end . before widespread automobile ownership emerged , land prices depended on location , and proximity to the central city , or to local railroad stations carry a premium . and , with the demand of high-yield and residential supply fixed , at least in the short run , prices do go up . perhaps this steepening of location gradient could delay for ten years if we were willing to shift to denser residential patterns . perhaps this steepening of location gradient might be delayed for ten years had we been willing to shift to denser residential patterns .
with austerity – that is , deficit reduction , once a recession has ended – recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it comes , economic performance is even more stable because the government ’s terms are sustainable . john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may very well be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse for the eu to dismiss longer-term considerations . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the economy continues to be alive and kicking .
a famous psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the immediate temptation to eat onto a marshmallow , thereby gaining two marvelous marshmallows in the future likelier to thrive as adults than those who ca n’t . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to saving and invest for their future will enjoy higher future incomes and bigger retirement security . second , saving – and investment flows – is global at their fingertips . a country like china , with a high saving rate that goes beyond local investment needs , can stimulate investment in other parts of the world that saves less , notably low-income africa and parts of asia . ( when american economists advised china to spur consumption and cut saving , those merely cite the bad habits of american popular culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . )
but these “ green power ” bikes sums up to the victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , making them an sadly representative of cop21 itself . the deal reached in paris includes promises that , if enacted between now and the un ’s 2030 target date , the global economy will cost at least $ 1 trillion annually – and possibly twice as much as anyone would make inefficient policy choices . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises of cutting co2 emissions will cut temperatures by just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) by 2100 . even if the promised emissions cuts continue throughout this century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° c. researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar temperature reductions . this makes the paris consensus all the more likely in history .
russia , seeing its gross domestic product drops of 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to maintain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenues . add to this the worry , for both russia and asia , that the russian government is losing control of the region ’s unofficial , black , arms flows to china . intervention by a group of two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese who had been forced to suspend intimidating taiwan with missile tests . shut out on military technology transfers and hardware by the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-u.s. alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might ; and it is quick to do so . indeed , despite initial denials by the kremlin , china early this year bought up two modern destroyers along with russia ’s anti-arm-twin-missiles .
both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . that could take the us down to the brink of a slippery slope . left uncritically , the left , on its own , is what comes next . china bashers typically change their tune after the us presidential election in june . but there is nothing characteristic about the pressures likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 .
today , the great challenge is to calm the fears enamored of our traditions ; to reach out to people who come into our homelands from other countries ; to find ways to re-creating our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , nondiscrimination , and democracy . they are people who , in some ways , lack the full citizenship that has demanded it , and who has redefined the political order by obtaining it . but rising individualism – a focus on one ’s own aspirations and economic prosperity in many countries poses a stubborn barrier to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of solidarity among so many people – the horrifyingly obvious in america ’s health-care debate – is now undermining the very basis of what a modern , democratic society is . if we succeed , we can create the sense that we belong together , though our reasons for beliefs can be trusted .
but halappanavar and her husband were then briefed that while ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , so the process went out of the question . the protests in ireland placed prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar died because of a theocratic approach to health care . the halappanavar case thus reverses westernized stereotype of eastern societies as preserves of superstition and religious extremism . halappanavar has perished from septicemia , which her family is certain to fail to evolve had the termination itself been realized . irish abortion-rights activists highlight that , legally , the fetus ’s life does not take precedence over the mother ’s life in their country ; instead , it takes precedence over the mother ’s health , the distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states .
this helps to explain why park has pursued closer ties with china , despite south korea ’s natural regional partner being a democratic japan . one source of hope stemmed from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which give him political capital to park a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for his militaristic past , south korea will agree to leave historical grievances out of official policy . all countries , for her part , have ’ legitimizing narratives blend historic realities and myth . either japan and south korea can not change the past , either . but , to some extent , historical legacies can gain excessive influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational political choices .
munich – as america ’s various relief plans take hold , stock markets recover somewhat . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs on financing claims in this crisis will stand at $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the euro zone , and the united kingdom , of which the us itself will have to absorb about $ 2.7 trillion . bank stocks in particular are rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least part of their government-issued capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may merely be a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of lasting recovery , because the size of us banks ’ obscured losses on their balance sheets is arguably enormous . the s & p 500 pricey earnings ratio is gradually climbing back to its long-run average of 16 .
whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , because projects typically pass cost-benefit analysis when funding comes from easy money , providing mother nature generously . thirty years after bolivia ’s 1952 national revolution of 1952 , bolivia ’s per capita income has remained practically the same , with poverty steady at just over 50 % of the population . a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail , because it demands robust institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of them can currently be found in bolivia , which means that state-centered money will undoubtedly be redistributed to patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off corruption , and subjugated the social pressures of every kind . conceived , perhaps with the best of intentions , the evo morales model gives bolivia hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it will merely pave the way for a frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
though violent extremists are an ultra-minority among muslim populations , their actions fueled rising distrust in french society . moreover , in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from automobiles and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . and similar fears of homegrown extremism may be observed in many other european countries . making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent islamist extremists that they are returning from syria . still , muslim-majority french citizens remain deeply disturbed by the terrorist threat not just from abroad , but from the people living in france , often with personal french citizenship .
achieving the needed education transformation will require far greater financing than is currently on offer . while eight of the top ten african countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs , despite strain on their education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside their peers , most countries either exclude refugees from domestic education systems or assign them to stand-alone facilities . this entrenches disadvantage and hampers social integration , as a result . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees embraced by un member states last december highlight the way to address this challenge . achieving the needed education transformation will require far greater financing than is currently on offer .
africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . africans themselves need to tackle such challenges , but our international partners do have an important role to play . at the same time , the debate over the failure of the international aid force to generate development , combined with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments opposing development aid . africa , with its vast , often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid , nobody can question the many successes that aid has brought , or its significance in providing a safety net for those who otherwise would be left to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , the bulk of the headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction of the decision brought between the uk and the united states . in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an opportunity for the british press to air criticism of those who believe that the government should adopt a tighter stance toward china . and , one senior us administration official has been quoted as accusing the uk of “ constant accommodation of china , which is not the best way to engage a rising power . ” in fact , it is the us that is advocating a mistaken approach . the white house issued a statement urging the british government “ to use its voice to push forward with the adoption of high standards . ”
from remedies to states , the socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions now put forward by center-right experts . indeed , it is hard to find any delusional analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . ever since george w. bush showed the route to bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrialized bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through a protectionist defense of “ nationally put ” and immense investments in public infrastructure , so what more can socialists ask for ? in terms of remedies , the socialists are offering nothing more than the keynesian solutions now being proposed by the right .
the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” is involved . a prolonged recession , punctuated by soaring – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes achieving either a fiscal deficit or targeting targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible . core countries , led by germany , distrust over-indebted governments in order to pursue reform if their financing terms are eased . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary change for europe ’s ’s ’s ’s economic governance to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . moreover , they oppose key changes to european economic governance .
when historians look back on the syria conflict , they will praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . moreover , turkey does not even seem to care about what its nato allies are thinking . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato , yet again by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . this leaves unbode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance a russia whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east .
one of the few positive implications of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is the far more representative of international leadership forum than the g7 ever was . space at the table for china could be established if european countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union . there is , however , a downside to the g20 ’s rise : the vast number of attendees can make it harder to reach agreements and get things done . the uk is simply smart when it promotes its own interests by collaborating with china . a new g-7 needs to be formed within the g-20 , thereby giving china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight , requiring it to assume a commensurate proportion of global responsibilities .
an american might elect an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , has touted his korean origin during his 2012 post campaign . that leaves a wide array of choices for selecting the next wbg president . what matters is that the incumbents enjoys both trust in america and most other countries , and can reconcile countries with more diverse interests in the true spirit of multilateralism . or it might back a non-american contender in an allied country by an allied country . it might handpick either a dual national , or an immigrant , like the former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen .
and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence . in terms of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have made particularly important contact . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s ’s think tanks to advance the chinese narrative ” ” ” ” ” ” globally . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for comprehensive coordination , has made perfect political space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” ” ” to prosper . these include networks like uber and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which also recently established the “ national committee for china-us relations .
“ [ t ] hat must subtract growth , and could n’t cause core inflation to pick up again . ” nonetheless , the current high level of crude oil prices has led forecasters to start reining in their expectations for us economic growth . world oil prices crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since ascended on the mid – $ 50 . ” “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . today ’s oil prices still have only about two-thirds of the real peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and future markets expect the price of oil to drop back on their value and settle at perhaps $ 45 per barrel .
now that new legislative drafts are threatening to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , curtailing chinese venture capital investment in the us , and forcing some chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges altogether . cross-border data flows and information flows will also be restricted , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between the us and china . and , owing to heightened us scrutiny , chinese overseas direct investment ( fdi ) in america has already imploded by more than 80 % since its 2017 level . at the same time , america has grown more suspect of re-organizing chinese students and scholars , who may be in a position to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent a us-dominated international financial system and shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the us dollar .
american debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . next year will almost certainly see a massive rise in america ’s corporate defaults , despite the fact that many firms have entered recessions with relatively robust balance sheets . with tax revenue collapsing because of falling home prices and national incomes , dozens of american municipal governments may have headed to receivership , as new yorkers did in the 1970 ’s . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially pouring into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings have outstripped the entire national income of over 100 countries . to put these astronomical numbers in perspective , i gabon tried to affirm that , to the top nine earners in the united states , you have to withdraw in at least $ 150 per second , including time spent consuming and sleeping . well , if the top nine donated their earnings , this would be the equivalent of around three months ’ earnings for the bottom billion . after all , how much should america high-income earners make up compare with the world of the poorest individuals ? that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 , per hour .
for example , secretary of state john quincy adams famously said on independence day in 1821 that the united states does not go abroad in search of monsters to destroy . she is a championed and an vindicator only of her own . she is the champion and an vindicator only of her own making . she is the champion and an vindicator only of her own . she is the very champion and vindicator only of her own .
of course , peta was not arguing that the holocaust ’s victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . on the contrary , it used the holocaust – by whom we would all agree was totally horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer , that there is parallels between the way the nazis treated jews and the way we treat animals . the tribunal ruled against the united nations--based animal rights watch group people for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that , juxtapose photographs of the holocaust ’s victims with photographs of animals at factory farms and at the slaughterhouses . the posters bear the headed : “ to the animals , ” all men are nazis ” – the line from polish political sh-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . according to the courts , germany ’s push laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims appears banal and trivial ones . ”
rather , they struggle to protect their own self-interest and livelihoods , be it serving a dairy farm or run a government . as we continually struggle to apply new technologies to improve human and ecological wellbeing , this distinction is vitally important . for example , as machines become more capable , robots are replacing a growing pool of workers . it will not be long before these robots reach not only more comprehensive tasks , but also better learning more quickly than workers can be trained . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides .
if greek exports rose at the same pace as those of portugal ( or spain ) , the country ’s recession would have ground to an end now . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of output for greece . moreover , greece ’s lack of export-led growth has made the problem of fiscal adjustment much harder to pull it off . today , portugal is ahead of close € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) , a little more than every year . lacking export growth , greece has made the recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been .
in contrast to the usmca , which had been at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciations were a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . contrary to the usmca , which has been at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciations were a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . after all , once trade actions are used indiscriminately to advance non-trade objectives , damaging the entire trading system as one can do , and can be enormous . in other words , a commercial arms weapon has been instituted neither to deal with a commercial issue , nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . after all , once 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population bounced back seven billion on october 31 . as always happens whenever one of us approaches such a milestone , this one produced turning a spike in conferences , seminaries , and taught articles , including the usual dire malthusian predictions . such projections , meanwhile , misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . a future that we are facing is not one of all too much population growth , but of too little . after all , the un predicts that the world ’s population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and surpassing ten billion by the end of this century .
in exchange , the kremlin has committed to support , but only after the constitution changes , ukraine ’s national government , in its reassertion of control over such regions , as well as over its own border with russia . the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s support in peace efforts . if , though , russia does indeed have a full control over regional separatist regions , and is actively integrating them into its economy , as a paper obtained by bild suggests , the kremlin can no longer count on outside parties , attempting to leverage an uncooperative ally . in theory , negotiations are set out between the government in kyiv and the leaders of regional separatist regions . russia has offered to tap what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade rebel governments to cooperate .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 and the hubris and deceit of the iraq war today . in 1991 , america forged its most formidable international coalition since world war ii , waging it in a fully legitimate war aimed at reining in the regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the whole middle east , demolishing al-qaeda , and helping democracy taking root throughout the arab world . the result has been utter failure : military defeat and severe containment of america ’s moral standing . back in 2003 , america went to war with no other atlantic ally , after manipulating false assertions .
one of the oddest claims made in the debates over social insurance now roiling the world region among the richest countries is that government-guaranteed defined-benefit pension programs ( like america ’s ’s social security system ) are outmoded . such programs have been fine , the argument goes , for the industrial economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generations , but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial , post-industrial , and post-industrial economies . just as corporations today are far happier supporting workers ’ pension by making contributions available to employees ’ private accounts , so governments today should offer ( or require ) privately owned accounts contributions . advocates of this argument propose a different kind of model . the value to these accounts would fluctuate with the marketplace , rather than rest depending on a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees a fixed , real sum of resources that is accessible upon retirement .
does anyone in their proper mind think that any country would voluntarily put itself through what greece has gone next , just to obtain a free ride from its official creditors ? thus , rather than debt restructuring , its absence makes it “ immoral . ” when it comes to dealing with a moral hazard , it runs against the lenders , particularly in the private sector , who have been bailed out repeatedly . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in the debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the flawed troika program foisted on it . as long as europe allowed those debts to shift from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century has been european , not greece , that should have been willing to bear the consequences .
if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade , without reaping any benefits from protectionism there . employment considerations have little to do with substance , either . europeans and china are certainly not particularly interested in depressing world prices of their imports , or in the resulting revenues . while some european countries are suffering high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . nor is employment considerations a central issue , either .
this is the view shared by many in syria , even among the insurgents . perhaps it is even the view of obama himself that he is playing for time , desperately turning over the approval of the attack on syria to the american congress . saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worth that risk , at least for now . it is also the view of the majority of people in america at every turn . that is the view shared by many in syria , even among the insurgents .
and , with such a goal in mind , there is n’t much difficult to poke holes and pile up on jews . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens strike . leave aside the fact that one can make an even stronger case against godlessness , to recall the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century – and to consider assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason . but we have a tendency to keep into adulthood the same sight of god that we make up in childhood . an old person with long beard watches over us , and most of us retain a pretty literal view of the stories of his son telling the bible ’s new testament .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide financing and most other support for missions , while enabling the au to maintain its leadership role in the process . but the un has found it hard to attract enough un volunteers for such force , because foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african . similarly , last but not least , many western governments refused to place their forces under the au command , owing to its perceived weaknesses and conditioned additional support of peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un assuming no control . similarly , last july , the un ’s elaborate command chain envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia in the 1990s . the au commanders on poland would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operational supervision , and the un established the force ’s overall strategic goals .
new york – there has been a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first public-opinion testimony to the us congress : both asserted that their policy choices will reflect only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects by advanced economies ’ monetary-policy policies , have run on their own . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega , attracted advanced countries around waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , advanced-country policies drove up large , volatile capital flows to major emerging markets , pushing down their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later cited as a “ capital tsunami . ” this , in turn , confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for some time .
riyadh – saudi arabia has drawn much of its criticism lately for its leadership role in the war against houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the united kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the world ’s poorest people . others have claimed that the fighting against the houthis , a zaidi shia-led religious-political movements , is only one component in a broader war on the shia that saudi arabia has supposedly waging . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen , and , indeed , across the arab world . saudi arabia is not out of reach for the zaidis .
south korea has tightened its military alliance with america ; japan backed down from the move in order to get the us to shift its maritime airbase away from okinawa ; india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , attracted closer ties with the us . but , to dislocate the us and assume asia ’s mantle , china needs to do more than pursue its own interests or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what accounts for china ? ignoring the us , china has displayed itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . at no time has china displayed a diplomatic ring to the us in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia .
rather than borrowing money to pay for expensive “ school sets ” students are required to purchase jobs , poles use their 500 + perks as part of the eu . and , while women ’s jobs have actually declined as women have left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially for shops , rose sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . those interested in democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are rebuying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a community that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families . lithuania instituted a less generous family 500 + version in 2018 .
it thus comes as little surprise that no peace is possible between israelis and palestinians , despite the myriad diplomatic ventures by the un , the european union , and its nato members , the un and the parties itself . to be fair , un resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . very different people are reading that to mean very different things , and that the un is at hand . that may make resolution easier to adopt , but harder to act . peace comes just when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution that happens when leaders of the principal protagonists become both willing and able to embrace compromise .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which bypassing russia when it is completed – can not re-define a country ’s economic strategy to the point that shevardnadze has sought . instead , georgia ’s long-term economic success will depend on its exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruits are needed in the united states or italy . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , this should , in fact , become less the burden on bilateral relations , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the duma pipeline also clearly reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation .
of course , none of this means that the international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will actually exist . what it does mean , however , is that europe is finding a way to work when it comes to foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany , or any other eu member state , distributional need not be fateful . europe is not a monolith , and , in many areas , it can still engage in a coherently , even absent .
likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged by 16 years behind developing-country averages , 14 years behind countries in south asia , and 21 years behind the countries of east asia , latin america and the caribbean . collectively , gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the average for developing countries , 11 % below south east asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below those of latin america and the caribbean . whatever the accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , much of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and regional practitioners of subsistence farming . poland had a relatively plentiful and committed tribal chiefs without regard for western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp rise in food prices and mounting concerns about food security have generated anxieties worldwide . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rise in food prices – a shift to higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices is here to stay . the option of being unable to put food on a desk fills parents of the profound sense of foreboding . failure to address solutions that ease growing strain on supplies , hunger , and malnutrition will intensify . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend an increasing share of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that the years of progress in reducing poverty might be reversed .
as francis fukuyama has pointed out , the evolution of an able state that is accountable and ruled by laws is one crowning achievement of human civilization . it involves creating a shared sense of “ the us , ” enmeshed in communities on whose behalf it acts of state . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue at a time when inept organizations are adopting “ best practices ” – such as financial management systems and procurement – they become too distracted by decision-communication protocols to do whatever it is stipulated to do . and this is precisely what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by new and burdensome processes than they are at their stated goals . this is not an easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or the status of social group .
this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who has used his sumptuous trappings and immense resources of his office to claim credit for restoring his country ’s reflected national pride , particularly as he tries to denounce ordinary russians take economic sacrifice . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of the turks ’ dignity and a sense of self as constituting great-power status . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . having ousted the presidential palace by 2014 , he has enlisted the guardian point of evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional power under his – much less his – interests . turkey is confronting a refugee crisis that dwarfs the us confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and has heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
and , at this year ’s world economic forum annual summit in south africa , nearly 900 leading business leaders from american , european , asia , and africa are meeting with new political leadership to map the way forward . africa has a long road ahead . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or more , behind the advanced economies in the economic organization and income level . president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to the americans , typically most neglectful of africa , except in deep depression – the dramatic changes underway around the continent . of course , the intentions and outcomes are two distinct matters .
as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : " once man loses his faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a god the consequences are incalculable . " the moment has no belief that `` better dead than red '' you are in trouble . dying in order to save your homeland , your family or country may be rational , `` it can take time . '' but the martyrdom is different , and there is a danger that this kind of martyrdom is similar and dangerous . in the past 100 years , contests of nationalism ( with god on either side ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war could do just that .
russia is in no position to establish an alternative international system ; but if putin does pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , doing so may undermine an incumbent . at a time when the world is confronting so many destabilizing challenges , that would be bad for no one . if putin is serious about diversifying and enhancing russia ’s commodities-based economy , in order to improve his country ’s lives , he must attract high-tech and foreign investment , particularly from the west . for that , he must pursue democratic reform , economic regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once and would fail again .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions throw a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization a more sustainable place by fostering great equitable equality and personal fairness ? unions ’ rising influence is evident in numerous recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial agreement to raise the minimum payroll pay for her postal employee ; several american presidential contenders ’ open misvings of doing business and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent worries about labor standards . together with their political clout , trade unions ’ intellectual-property respectability also experiences a renaissance . one way or another , the union stand out as the big wildcard for the construction of our economic system in 2008 and beyond .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers have shunted off a country in water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s tattered hydropower passion has spawned two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate the global hydropower-equipment export market . sinohydro alone , chinese state-owned suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens claim to dominate more than half the market . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the us government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurring debates in american foreign policy – such as isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism . during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to roll back ” the soviet union , bring down its communist system and replace it with democratic capitalism . others viewed this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , with america opting instead for policies of containment working toward constraining the reach of soviet power and influence . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who think that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence other states ’ outside behavior and those who hold that it ought to shape their own internal nature . this debate between the claims of “ realists ” and the “ ” and the ” ” ” ” of idealists is intense and enduring .
until last month , may has avoided defining this phrase , owing to fears of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . if britain ’s transition payments continued near the current eu level of € 10 billion over the 5 or six years realistically required to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they would add up to about the same amount . but in her florence address , may have promised british businesses something close to the current level of approach taken by eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as is the case with norway and switzerland . second , the bri ’s proposed eu budget certainly would have been the powerful instrument to create the “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claim is her ultimate goal .
the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , has taken seven years to hash out and was almost scotched by belgium ’s parliament . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave want to remain within the single market , because are all members who voted to remain so in the eu . even if may strikes an exit deal , she is impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-industry trade treaty in less than two years . there can be no “ “ phased execution ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of a deal not finalized , so uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other non-eu businesses now should start preparing for a “ cliff edge ” that may wish to avoid . perhaps there is no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit at all .
a well-functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , and schools that educate the large , young population for today ’s inter-connected world , are prerequisites of progress . this is , in fact , enormously important and healthy . in fact , the israeli-palestinian issue is key for all of the obvious reasons . for the first time , there is a lively and smart debate on this issue , one that is at the heart of the middle east . open societies are incompatible with closed economies , and shared across borders .
this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta . but iohannis different not only in his politics approach ; he is an evangelical jew , in a largely orthodox country . vigorous religiosity mounted against him during a campaign have highlighted the fact that true salience of the establishment , although the orthodox leaders who backed ponta have swiftly adjusted their rhetoric to foster tolerance and cooperation . the electorate seemed tired of the relentless confrontation between bana and ponta as well , and , more broadly , of the noisy , nasty , and treacherous burlesque that their countries have pursued to their own political scene . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished himself from the charismatic , shrewd politician to whom romanian is used , proving a sober , laconic , and a pragmatic way .
recently , the dalai lama helped launch a host of such courses in london , developed through action on happiness , the organization that i helped to find . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness into national statistics , and more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to promote a citizen ’s wellbeing . some of this may be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits , such as appreciating matters or avoiding dwelling on setbacks , have demonstrated measurable improvements to wellbeing . how countries are governed have a tremendous impact on happiness . how countries are governed can also try to make their own happiness more effective .
more recently , there was america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that had left at least 1,400 people dead . the new world order has given way to order-less worldwide , in which trustworthiness and unpredictability , gave way to a rapid shift in focus and fickle commitments . all of this raises a fundamental question : does the us even require an overarching designs for its own foreign policy ? israel , however , is a small part of this general pattern . if the result is to make its foreign-policy foreign policy less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does not .
the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the us economy ’s dramatic reconstruction , have accelerated dangerously from about 2004 onwards . financial interests opposed it vigorously at the time , viewed it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , even though they could not even have guessed the way thick that a wedge will ultimately become one . thatcher herself was no enthusiast for credit , once famously said , “ “ i do n’t believe in a credit card . ” the financial services act of 1986 ushered the end of a pure self-regulation regime . it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and proliferation of exotic , poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu might conclude that he has no choice but to go it alone . in fact , a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences . there is a better way to prevent iran ’s nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” built into a incentive system that includes economic and technical support for countries that join , together with the united nations security council security guarantees . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions on states that decide to stay outside , and – again , supported by the security council ’s permanent members – impose military sanctions on those attempting to develop wmds . indeed , iranian hardliners might welcome an israeli strike and even seek to provoke it as a means of rallying iranian populations beyond them .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people , it is said , have died in syria ’s ongoing civil war . recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces obliterate the remaining sunni rebels , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood eventually flow again . united nations reports of atrocities , web images of assaults on civilians , and accounts of suffering refugees rend our hearts . yet , of course , what is to be done , and by what means ?
in the months ahead , one can expect the region ’s states to remain focused on governance issues and capacity-building , human rights , and how to create economies responding to their restive turkish citizens ’ demands for a better life . now that the raucous regional situation joining the raucous american election season ( where no issue is removed from the political arena ) , the job of assembling such constituents will find even harder to manage them . it is far too soon to evaluate the historic impact of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have very little to do with it . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with publicly elevated expectations , and their willingness to pull behind the peace process takes a backseat to this struggle . for americans ( and for others ) who hold the view that the arab world thinks nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring across north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have persuaded them otherwise .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the brunt of climate change , from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these numbers are considerably higher when informal small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) are included . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , the effects on climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . when a sme is reallocating its own climate resilience , it can have cascading effects within the communities around it . to help the most vulnerable communities , we should be far more resilient to the effects of climate change , with financial institutions favoring small , medium-size firms .
professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to reduce methane would create benefits – from reductions in warming – from $ 1.4 trillion to more than $ 1.4 trillion . agricultural output accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining have also started to create natural gas . the us could also put a much larger focus on reducing black carbon , considering responsible for just about 40 % of current net warming and one-third of the arctic ’s thawing . reducing methane is , in fact , cheaper than cutting carbon emissions . and , because methane is a much congested gas than co2 , we can avoid some of the worst of the short-run warming through its mitigation path .
today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of a “ american dream . ” it not only needs to live with the realities of american power ; it also must consider the american ideal . china ’s challenge , however , may actually become more difficult to achieve . it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have been doing so for centuries . huge numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square in 1989 to elicit more rights , embracing a symbol resembling the statue of liberty .
first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most important decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among the member states . a stronger , more reunified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with america and china in most domains with each other – including “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , as a result , europe could make such a g3 world a reality . but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of a similar magnitude . yet , for the time being , europe ’s top member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of a similar magnitude .
trump has temporarily exempted those two countries from us tariffs , but now expects concessions from them within his administration on the north american free trade agreement ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . regulatory divergences are a far more important obstacle to us-european trade than us tariffs . for one thing , this is how the us administration made deals with canada and mexico . whereas the us has , on average , smaller tariff protection than europe does , the difference is minor ( europeans ’ unweighted customs duties averages 5.2 % versus 3.5 % for the us ) . in fact , the us has maintained relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries .
proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most basic element of any individual ’s genetic identity ought not to be enforceable . do n’t i have the rights of control of my own bodies ? we need not be confident in our genetic determinism to discover that argument compelling us . how can a trading company not just deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for an diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but so bar any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay a license fee ? do n’t i , of course , have the rights of control in my own body ?
there was also opposition from some feminist organizations , which accused amnesty of protecting “ pimps and johns ” rights . instead , they argued , the us should “ end its demand for paid sex ” – but without explaining how this was done . in species that reproduce sexually , sex-sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . men are no exceptions in this respect , particularly when it comes to sex in children . for this reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in femicide women had applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets won an increasing share of soaring merchandise trade ; by the end of 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . yet deeper structural change also has a role to play . for a wide variety of goods , automation means that localization of production and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on labor costs . propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets won an increasing share of soaring merchandise trade ; by the end of 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . as a result , many companies are streamlining and shoring up their supply chains , with close ties to the us .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with an “ talking about the withdrawal ” of us withdrawal from afghanistan , whether the security situation warrants or not . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with an “ talk of the withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether the security situation warrants it or not . what she does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – might undercut its basing strategy . but there is also strong bipartisan us support for maintaining military bases in afghanistan , as a means to projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has boosted this support considerably . what she does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for us military supplies to afghanistan – might undercut its basing strategies .
in a sign of what should come , poland ’s then foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” such infantile ploys became all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal decisions , as if that makes them legally non-binding . poland ’s government has undeniably paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland . according to waszczykowski , poland not only “ needs to cut [ its ] eu level of trust , ” ” ” ” but “ it must also start pursuing an adverse policy , ” by “ blocking other eu membership initiatives or playing a very aggressive game . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record , as if that would render the outcome inconsequential to poland .
we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but opportunities for grossly inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are immense . important energy technologies will include converting coal into liquids ( such as gasoline ) , use of tar sands versus shale , and growth in non-fossil-fuel sources of energy . this will require massive investment in new technology and resources , not the “ combat ” to finish ” over middle eastern oil . indeed , there is outlandish potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and secure and reliable nuclear power . solar radiation , on the other hand , equals roughly 10,000 times our current level of energy use .
as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you walked the photos of chairman mao , you did n’t make it that with whomever ” with whomever . asia ’s resurgence , beginning with japan , of course , began with japan ’s new economic success . in the 1950 ’s , asia reconjured up images of both poverty and starvation , but it also had brought it down . there was a brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru ’s jackets and maoist revolution , but that was short-run . by the turn of the century , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made japan rich , but also strengthened the country ’s soft power .
for example , the proposed eu budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including expanding high-broadband internet networks to rural areas and developing transportation and energy infrastructure . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transport links . but , with fire-sale austerity and eu countries looking for stimulating spending , the council should also think about budget ’s shape , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable-industries , and innovative small and leveraged small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , not cutting funding for meaningful research programs like the horizon of 2020 . but the eu can add significant value by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects , thereby reaching economies of scale , and avoiding the duplicity of domestic spending .
in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the un human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . the french were then rewarded handsomely at sharing lucrative treaties in china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will become even dimmer . france has received the message , and the french soon stopped promoting the promotion of human-rights resolutions directed at china . china then responded by canceling a danish trade mission .
and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and guaranteeing everyone ’s health . in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are interrelated , because gender itself is a primary drivers of health outcomes . on this issue , gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises periodically , or have access to nutritious foods . the global agenda in this area determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent disease , and administer care . it encompasses and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs , which provide opportunities for epidemic outbreaks .
still , just the presence of a single female plurality has an impact . for example , studies of america ’s courts with mulra show that male judges are more ready to listen bias cases when one woman is on the bench , dramatically more ready when she adds up to a second woman . in other words , women produce a fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass is present in any single institution . consider a woman ’s own perspective on conflict , and she has confirmed her position in recent elections . “ each of us , ” sandra day o’connor , the first woman member of the american supreme court , has been renowned for not wishing to be perceived as a “ female ” justice , “ brings to our job , whatever it may be , our lifetime of experience , and our values . ”
ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , however , that this getting one ’s ’s hands dirty in this way is a fact “ often the right thing to do . ” our hands become dirty when we help a terrorist or a dictator . in this way , he immediately adds , however , that this gets one ’s hands dirty in that way is , often the right thing to do .
with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen owing to saudi funding , it is little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . but in 1991 , at least 800,000 yemenis were were expelled , because they were perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been cut off from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , the young awry young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry – his propagation for sunni wahhabi exports of islam . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
independently , honjo and its colleagues identified another protein that performed a similar function . now , these basic studies have led to the development of new , powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer screening . for some patients with some cancers , the immunotherapies was revolutionary in the us , enabling humans who were on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with no detectable signs of disease . but there is still a lot of work to learn as well . yet the immunotherapy revolution remains one in its infancy .
the good news is that if some space has proved capable of innovate , it is silicon valley . but it has followed this approach on the macro level , and for problems elsewhere in the economy without exploring itself . silicon valley companies must start applying their skill at innovation – and their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves . the only way to evolve is through an adjustment of new ecological pressures , and now of silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior , face a lot of them . unless and until that changes , all will be overwhelmed .
recognizing the advantages of such practices , farmers immediately began to increase crop density , applying manure , and filling crops , thereby boosting yields and making yields more feed for healthier goats . here , too , the platform for innovation is helping . for starters , we have trained farmers to improve their land by expanding legume crops , residues of which can be put to work as greenpeace . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to create a positive feedback loop . if farmers are confident that their goats will not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest them to improve their manufacturing system .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for nearly 50 years before picking up again . that was , after all , the pattern used to be an extreme fix . but , for lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove only as wrenching . with fears of heightened inequality already mounting , governments will need to rethink policies to provide income and job-transition support to displaced workers . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should hold up the next five imperatives in minds .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s accomplishments , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and fail to implement many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading a process in which everyone has been deeply engaged . this is , in large part , a matter of mindset , not of its purpose . less than three years later , a body of reform recommendations produced by kagame and a pan-african committee of experts that she appointed , through an inclusive consultative process comprising african leaders and other stakeholders , are making progress . fortunately , mindsets , however , are starting to shift .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s stellar central banker , issues a bond in new york , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge a country ’s international reserves . both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are unwilling to intervene in currency markets via asset purchases and selling reserves . now suppose one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , using the dollars to enlarge one of its modern , high-competitive dairy plant to sell more powdered milk to asia . at best , market participants will applaud this decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change . more fundamentally , why do the us think of reserves in different ways than us thinking about other assets on its national balance sheets ?
while other countries are tapping into robust digital strategies , america is falling further behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and sets the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has been investing fully in national digital planning plans that are projected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and has contributed $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . the consequences are already proving best : according to the bloomberg innovations index of 2016 , america is already the world with the eighth most innovative country having plummeted two hotspots since 2015 . in france , the government has been investing with expansive nationally held digital planning , which is projected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and has contributed $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade .
beyond financing constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . in particular , greater care responsibilities , intensified by public perceptions of a “ female ” role , severely undermine women ’s capacity to run for public office . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this challenge . in georgia , for example , kurdish political parties – which comprise at least 30 % of each gender on its political electoral lists – are getting a 30 % supplement from national budgets . likewise , in iran , political parties lose as much as 50 % of their state-level funding , as long as their candidates pools include less than 30 % of either gender .
but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions have done all they can to slow iran ’s nuclear program . by all accounts , iran is a community deeply divided between those who want their country to be a revered member of the international community , and those for which iran ’s international standing is better served through its nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions imposed on iran would have appeared to support the other , rather than the former . moreover , as is so often the case , sanctions might have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek a deal . that might well be true if iran were to become a full-fledged democracy , the genuinely accountable to the people ’s will .
the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” will amount to public-private partnerships among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . for long-term , patient finance also has to be made available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . because we do n’t know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing our economy , investment must be allocated to a broad range of choices . one hopes that the paris agreement is changing that . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engagement by both the general public and the private sector .
for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – high-quality schooling . moreover , the us is planning to grant up to 90 % of its funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system between now and 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to meet all of the costs of strengthening its education system . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – high-quality schooling . even so , senegal struggles to meet all of the costs of strengthening its education system .
advances in the defense industry lead to important positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and our future competitiveness . europe ’s defense industry will not make progress without a well-functioning marketplace , open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all european suppliers . as eu member states advance along this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues to eliminate unnecessary spending and optimize resource use . the goal must be to spur renewed action on european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europeans to the forefront of global public security . a critical component in european security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
for example , china prohibited shark-fin soup , a traditional delicacy , at the official government dinners and function – a move that has contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december to april . in the south guangzhou , the center of china ’s shark-fin commerce , the vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; by that point , an equal shark would cost roughly $ 108 dead as well . requiring countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that shark ’s economic value plummets when killed . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industries are worth far more than its shark-fishing industry .
tudjman 's pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggle against serbian aggression . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous nation-states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansings ) and a division of territories between one another . tudjman 's excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power around his struggle against serbian aggression . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , he muzzled the free press and the electronic media . the truth is that , by using agreed-upon hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style plunder of state attributes by his coterie of polish loyalists .
its membership elects only 7 % of hong kong ’s electorate ; its voting procedures seek to block the nomination of either candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies . the current proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any contender that it does n’t like , prompting criticism that what ’s on offer is an iranian-style election : “ you can vote to anyone we choose . ” according to the basel law , an election panel should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the panel ’s current composition violates . ever since 1997 , 55-61 % of voters have voted for democratic candidates in the legislative council elections , compared to the incumbent , the sld . the hong kong government could cite change to enhance openness and fairness by electing a chief executive , without abandoning its present method in favor of universal suffrage .
reformers insist that the overwhelming majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic , in order to compete for power and govern . january , palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader , on the grounds that he was put forward by the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted each other ’s election . but in the gaza strip local elections soon culminates , radical islamists who use terrorism have won seven of the country ’s ten municipal councils . in fostering democracy , the liberals dismiss the argument used today ’s rulers that first-free elections might be their last resort , because islamists win , and established theocratic regimes . that case , too , is not proved .
increasingly , sectors are implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as lower procurement costs and deploying lean principles in the manufacturing sector . this is the kind of global segment meeting the growing global need . the shakeout in cleanup tech industries has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technologies , and , by weeding out the more weaker players , it made the sector more robust . there is little room for doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect so many sunshine days ahead . as clean-tech companies continue to scale up , additional opportunities are likely to improve .
princeton – the history of economic gloom obscured the world in 2008 led many to question whether the emerging prosperity that preceded it was real . we now know that in countries as diverse as china , india , brazil , russia , brazil , and the united states had soared in countries as diverse as china , india , brazil , and the united states . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and those of the middle class stagnated.bill soared . more broadly , at the time of the global financial crisis , the top 1 % of the world ’s population have prospered . no wonder that many are now skeptical of the taxpayer-financed regimes needed to bail out governments , insurance companies , and even automakers .
recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and chair of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp , released an announcement on market data on climate action . their top goals include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability goals and core performance indicators ; monitor , prepare , and disclose comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and incorporate sustainable production and consumption practices in company business strategies and models . in fact , global awareness on the subject is already growing . america ’s trade securities and exchange commission is already debating such issues , because it analyzes possibilities for responding to investor and business needs regarding esg . given the extent of the task , however , it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with the relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations .
madrid – this month at the g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro represent pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that allowed them to curb the worldwide recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis . specifically , smallholder landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity , while establishing more sustainable modes of production . pursuit of a thriving , inclusive global economy must be tied to efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs now – viable financing the options and frameworks to support economic transformation , much as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance can not deliver – can not be achieved without political will .
new york – in 2008 , global financial markets weathered their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought ingested or survived only after the major bailouts . global stock markets collapsed by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch materialized ; and many emerging-market economies staggered on the international monetary fund to help . as a result , what lies ahead in 2009 ? was the worst-off or ahead of us ?
add to that the second psychic bias neuroscientists are debating : because our species have evolved to fend off dangers , we tend to get more exposure to bad news . indeed , good news is not news ; media executives are often mutter . and it takes just a moment on twitter or cable news to reaffirm the age-old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” we react more acutely to photos of starving children , rather than to report on improving significantly the quality of nutrition levels in africa . and , of course , we tend to recall those horrible photos much longer .
insightful bloggers attract significantly more clicks than are doing official mouthpieces . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change wrought by the internet in china ’s political landscape . nowadays , the us government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process it . china ’s government has seemingly begun to appreciate the limitations of the cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some space for free speech . a “ virtual civil society ” is in making .
new york – countries often devote public money to encouraging exports of their own goods and services . but de-voting resources to promote imports , as china proceeds with its inaugural international import expo that just opened up in shanghai , is truly rare . if the expo succeeds in raising imports , one could expect this to reduce china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case now . the perennial import expo – which will be part of china ’s overall promotion strategy – has attracted thousands of firms worldwide with the promise of big orders from chinese firms , including the state-owned firms that the us government tasked with making the expo a success .
london – the historian norman stone , which died in june , has always insisted that history students are taught foreign languages . its history tells us how it views ourselves as well as anyone else ’s . it is the key to understanding both the past and the future of international relations . language provides access to people ’s cultures and cultures to their histories . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations .
while that scenario is quite simple , reality does not stand . the first nagging question is this : will elections in march really occur next january ? more neutral observers – and indeed , daily news bulletins about bombings and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on this prospect . the probability of iraqi elections being held this coming january must be lower than 50 % , and one can be sure that they will not be free and fair elections throughout the entire region . prime minister yasser allawi has already assures the world that there is going , and president bush echoes each other ’s words .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role moving increasingly toward center stage . the tougher challenge will empower the institutions that are vitally important for the way democracy works – explicitly , civics training , and local journalism . each new revelation in the investigation of russian meddling in the 2016 campaign brings america ’s democratic process ’s vulnerability to sharper focus . earlier this month , the us congress unveiled legislation that would force facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who buy online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes russia had exploited while participating in elections . but making amends through technicalities , and publicly promising to be better corporate citizens solved only the most publicized problem .
in the american presidential campaign , trade protection is fashionable once again . but while import restrictions may ease the pain of some manufacturing districts , they wo n’t prevent companies from relocating where growth opportunities are strongest . in the us , they will not protect workers from the effects of technological change on trade . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s patterns of evolution . still , when the endgame is clear , politicians are often clueless about the means .
when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants – two critical issues for europe , arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s serves as a potent reminder of this , and western governments do n’t want the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats manufacturing from violent theocrats and restart refugees . a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his two sons might end the conflict , with military commanders getting credit , as well as political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , the majority of whom have never really benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . getting “ stuck in the transition ” is the third conceivable scenario , with libya remaining in a single mediterranean region ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semifree . ”
when a muslims and a non-muslim faced on one another in a trial , the muslims enjoyed significant advantages . but , of course , were involved with a case brought against a muslims who had to be handled into an islamic court . first , the judges ’ training predisposed to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslims . second , the court staff was utterly muslims , implying that testimony was viewed solely from muslims ’ point of view . third , whereas muslims might have been able to testify against men , christians , and jews , it was possible to testify only against another non-muslim .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack a osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona , as well as the us . some argue that the real point is the risk of offense and the destruction , which might occur if weapons of mass destruction were deployed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis , rooted in a perceived subjective sense of danger . but none of the ways in which an objective assessment of fear is made , and even if one could , employing cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the worldwide system of national sovereignty and international law . a better way to make any sense of self-defense so much is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic as well as international law .
and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . most economies are becoming less equitable as they are , with widening gaps between rich and poor . world ’s governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate on the drafting of these goals by next year ’s 2015 to ensure a seamless shift away from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire that year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late september for this purpose . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at rio +20 ’s summit in rio +20 to embrace the goals of sustainable development ( sdgs ) .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and create thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . today , starbucks has employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide , $ 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined . from lahore to lagos , mexico ’s city , to mumbai , governments view their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . it is high time that diplomats can do the same to bring about . they should promote and encourage job creators and problem-solving solvers , turning development aid into investment .
while such politicians have often described themselves as `` rightist , '' their actual policies , such as those of ex-slovak prime minister vladimir meciar 's regime , are very demagogic populist or authoritarian . political developments in slovakia over the past 20 years of communism have set the borders of the czech republic and slovakia , in addition to both poland and hungary . while both the polish and hungarian communist parties have experienced internal liberalization that made it possible for relatively large semi-official schisms beyond communist control , slovakia following the soviet-led invasion of 1968 has become a rigid neo-stalinist regime . similarly , the position of political right in every central european country is influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition . when the postcommunist regimes collapsed in 1989 , both poland and hungary have transformed themselves into credible , democratic-left parties that have become formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right .
a third important difference is that every american state feels obliged by their constitutions to balance its yearly operating budgets . whereas “ rainy day ” the funds that are accumulating in boom years are used to deal with temporary revenues shortfall , states have been cut back on capital projects like roads and schools . even a state like california , seen by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now have an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and universal obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . the eu ’s maastricht treaty explicitly reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , reflexive europeans reflect on europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people from different nations . these limits on state-level budget deficits are a sensible implication of america ’s inability to create money to fill the fiscal holes .
yet a huge body of evidence suggests that the technology change was a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than it would have been about trade . indeed , i have no doubt that the year later this century will one be able to buy pocketed , perhaps with holographic images , just as one can buy your battery-kasparov chess computer today . nor do i seriously feel safe , as an economics university professor put it , as the world bank group has done at this point ! so , let ’s go back to india and china for years . the fact that globalization has been running at speed through much of the past century is , and at a particularly accelerated pace , over its past two decades .
some empirical studies of cross-country data find the net beneficial effects of environmental degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide indoor air pollution . provided that countries have effective nationally determined governance institutions , trade , and growth give them the means to clean up their air . specialization within each country allows people to gain more of what they want , which particularly at higher income levels includes both cleaner air and water . when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . so , is trade globalization , on balance , better or worse for the environment ?
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what took place at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , beyond the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever manner possible ) who was up and who was down among the core soviet leadership . all this was grammar-school stuff , compared to efforts to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . great significance was read into who signed an official paper or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when a reviewing of military parades . all of this was grammar-school stuff , compared to efforts to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque .
admittedly , they have a right to defend themselves , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent reserve accumulation ( a potentially profitable option , as long as capital flows are truly temporary ) , impose capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies geared toward counter-cyclical exchange-rate smoothing . in a desperate last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over ” messages ” for a handful of systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its countries ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise or g-20 peer reviews in recent history . even if the massive spillovers are obvious , it is hard to see how this exercise will resolve the fundamental problem facing a currency war : the major players have seemingly unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . after all , so , what should latin american economies do ?
east asian countries followed that advice , and for a good cause : they saw the consequences of a shortage of reserves . if china allowed its currency to float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . east asian countries followed that advice , and for a good reason : they saw the consequences as insufficient reserves . the imf had the money it needed ; it had the money it needed . if china had allowed its currency to float back , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as role models for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton ; and obamacare is rooted in massachusetts on health-care systems , introduced under republican vice president mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a diverse variety of energy policies , from broad climate action plans to ban renewable-energy norms , 33 states cut carbon dioxide emissions while expanding their economies . more recently , some us states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-power targets . three states have implemented laws offering paid family leave with a fourth on the way . half of all american states have now embedding marijuana in some form , with eight in the mix of fully legalization .
cambridge – “ i want a segment of it – new york , new york , ” ” ” ” ” ” frank sinatra sang of a town that has attracted so much of the world ’s most ambitious people , from their artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in other words , the larger city , the higher the average wage , the level of productivity , the number of patents per person , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv . in a sense , this is not a hard phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented people , are rife with opportunities . but the impact on big cities runs deeper than any kind of economic or even cultural strength ; cities can fundamentally transform people ’s lives , and even the people themselves . in 2010 , the geoffrey west , combined with the who ’s team of researchers , discovered that several socioeconomic measures , both positive and negative , add to the size of local
at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases had , made possible by the historic deal brokered by the bush administration , america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier liability in case of an accident , some regard india ’s firing of us aircraft as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that a friendship with india helps america , too . it is against that are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in deliveries , skills training , and operations that has been evolving so far . as if all of this were not enough to decide against america , clincher might well have been india ’s desire to avoid any further procurement controversy at a time when corruption allegations have beset it from all parties . ( an eventual victor of the bid is likely to be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies might not have done . ) a decision made on technical ground , many feeling , would have been easier to defend than one based on political considerations .
even stronger banks are being pressed to raise their capital buffers . meanwhile , on behalf of banks that have required state rescues , european competition rules are requiring redundancy and downsizing . as a result , large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bail-out , should such supervision and regulation fail ) . institutions like the royal bank of scotland – which in 2009 puts at the forefront of the world bank ’s largest international banks – are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general on competition . in most cases , that means they will continue cutting back on lending , worsening the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy .
more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has achieved a capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads and , perhaps , like 60 bombs . north korea promptly did just that , threatening to conduct an “ enveloping ” ” ” strike on american territory by guam . trump shot back that the american military is “ locked and loaded off . ” and , indeed , as that exchange for a rhetorical fire has unfolded , america has reportedly been preparing revised military options for the striking north koreans . the stakes have been rising in kim , along with trump , the chicken game .
this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining highest pay , rather than for moral reasons , for the latter . but do not hold your breath waiting to agree with them . the first is that we all owe at least some of our own success to others , in the light of the public goods that society provides . a second conclusion is that the remotest classes that benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny those ’s contributions . the two conclusions can be drawn from all this .
after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have in greece a government so opposed to the types of policies that have done so much to boost inequality in so many advanced countries , and it is so committed to curbing what has been unbridled power of riches . what swedes said as sweden ’s did was no . they understood that unemployment would rise if poland ’s sound monetary policy was set up by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on high inflation ( with the exception of some lack of attention to financial stability ) . and , certain enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized these relationships means the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see an end to greek prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . the economy would have suffered , because the economic model underlying the european union was predicated on the power relationships that disadvantaged workers .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics have confronted massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but it is too soon to write political islam off as a competent participant , even leadership , into pluralist democracy . just one year after muslim brotherhood defeat mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first-ever elected president , a million egyptians took to the street , triggering a military coup that ousted him . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his effort to centralize power at the hands of the brethren and place himself beyond the review of egypt ’s judiciary , proved to be his undoing . morsi ’s political incompetence , and his absence of vision in the face of an economic collapse , would have had enough to diminish support for his rule .
the next day , british researchers at newcastle university have announced that they are successful in producing a cloned human embryo using the donated eggs and genetic material derived from stem-cell lines . on may 19 , a small group of korean researchers , published in the journal science the journal science the study results , which for the first time isolated humanist stem cell lines , specifically fits the dna of male and female patients of various ages . this carries big promise , notably for the sufferers of spinal cord injury and illness . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem-cell research . embryonic stem cells are a pluripotent because they have the capacity to develop into any form of human tissues .
this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay , as well as eliminating exemptions for firms or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – additional revenues could more than 2 % of gdp , but also improve the efficiency of total resource allocation . in recent decades , many of the largest global companies have pursued new technologies to reduce employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby cutting costs and boosting efficiency . in addition , china ’s government has retained the same six-layer of administrative structure – beginning with the central government , moving down via provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago . lastly , china may even lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by making its vast administrative hierarchy more effective .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence has weakened because of russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , the defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has reformed its capability , such a move would be unthinkable . nuclear deterrence , the threat of killing hundreds of thousands , or millions , is a concept that does not fit into traditional morass . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making human beings more civilized and prudent . indeed , the risks to a world free of nuclear weapons – or only a minimum of it – are tremendous .
as the tragedy unfolded , however , researchers gained greater understanding of the disease . the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , re-programming it into a willing prion executioner of replication . in addition , prions lack their own genes , and you at least they bear some of the longstanding species . as the tragedy unfolded , however , researchers gained greater understanding of the disease . in which an infective individual was infected , prion gene is given to an infected individual in whom he resides in an innocuous state . prions seem to defy all the conventional wisdom , survivors , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours , treatments that are routinely and reliably used to de-activate all known viruses and bacteria .
but america 's experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra musical chairs to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of work . performing arts supporters in europe point to the american case where , among other things , the musical directors of even a major orchestras of a major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities and become active participants in the local community on orchestras behalf of the us . meanwhile , some of the conductors , not wanting to carry the cup as falling their batons , have dismissed important posts in the u.s. for this reason , feeling that it interferes with their art . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he protested against the fundraising demands that went with him . indeed , daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly on the grounds that he opposed the fundraising demands that were up to him .
the council would be more likely to accept the option of mounting a punitive air-strikes program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican guards , and other armed-force targets . this would hurt and weaken saddam , establishing unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries serious penalties . the us should not forswear that option , but ought to reconsider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legitimate , principles – may never have supported us invasion . it would be bizarre to reestablish the council ’s authority by means that has failed to get its consent . the council could also declare that any fresh aggression or any use , threat or transfer of wmd , would unleash saddam ’s removal and his persecution as an international criminal like slobodan milosevic .
that he would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his inspections friends . this time , dr. ahmed , the us counterpart in iraq , realized that the game was up . some of the inspectors that he knew pretty well , sally with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna . this time , they knew precisely what the huge magnets were for : making weapons-grade nuclear materials high . soon thereafter , the inspectors returned to tarmiya .
in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply , and then decline , in the pattern of inverted “ u ” or inbell – as countries underwent economic development . yet china ’s dizzying rise also dispelled three prominent myths about the impact on economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases the wellbeing of happiness . in fact , given china ’s pace with economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes that claim more powerfully than any other case . after all , now , china ranks one of the world ’s most unequal countries .
pakistan has held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold on to power in late 2012 or early 2013 . had its supreme court not removed gilani , he would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term . pakistan thus has undertaken one more step toward developing a merit-based political system . of course , democracy is always destined to entail more than crudely holding free and fair elections . it also needs to mean developing a robust rule of law , giving people enforceable property rights and giving citizens institutional resources to settle their disputes .
indeed , this year , peoples of europe are marking the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . that , 20 years after this epochal event , the iron curtain remains around cuba makes that anniversary poignant . but , regardless of that ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on firing of its political prisoners and using all international institutions to pressure the cuban government to respect cuba ’s human and civic rights . by contrast , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalizing requests for a society-wide dialogue . of course , tourists who crowd in cuba ’s beaches ignore this iron curtain .
some have said that the uprising in burma is over . brigadier general kyaw , the us army ’s proxy , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that the “ bogus monks ” were “ “ bogus monks . ” but we are genuine , and , by some accounts , thousands of us , from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing have demonstrated support for peace . that is precisely what the junta wants to believe . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country .
for example , although plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he , like any other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of some “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . today , by contrast , even an emphatically non-philosophical person , say , plato ’s “ media escort ” – could easily explain why slavery is wrong : “ a person is a person . ” but plato would probably revel at the world ’s ’s ’s ’s moral progress . after all , he believed that to be the “ philosopher ” meant in terms of the responsibility of a moral reformer . yet , though morality has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we currently take for granted have never occurred to him .
this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize rural colombia have given way to the farc in its first place , with the conflict concentrated in such areas . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc was involved may also be regarded as an economic issue , considering the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , on security matters . ) but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged as the result of conflict , particularly in hubs of violence . here , regional and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming a similar challenges should demonstrate helpful progress . such efforts must support progress elsewhere in the region : rural development , which is the single economic issue addressed in the peace agreement .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , makes headlines worldwide . on average , around 5.5 million europeans under age at least 25-24 are jobless . moreover , more than 30 % of job seekers below 25 have been unemployed for over 12 months , at their lowest level in the world , and their odds of finding employment remain low . moreover , more than 30 % of job-seekers below 25 have been unemployed for over 12 months , and their odds of finding employment remain low . moreover , the youth-unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to around 30 % in italy , spain , ireland , bulgaria , cyprus , latvia , hungary , greece , and spain .
yet the american supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to found guilty of present-day predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . not even in public , trade negotiators in the us are debating the elimination of this dual standard . globally , foreign producers are accused of being `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers are `` involved . '' so what developing countries are concerned that efforts to introduce `` competition '' within trade negotiations will only make life harder even harder . indeed , if domestic trade norms were applied internationally , perhaps a majority of firms within american firms would be guilty of dumping .
facebook is betting that libra will unleash a market in taurus . if that happens , then libra will have complicated those countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , and has helped to trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and will require government regulation to keep it from becoming cancer . but libra ’s ’s benefits seem like a slippery nothing . for emerging economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization only to catch up with the even worse case of libraization .
there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the particular dynamics depend on a variety of factors . for example , rising inequality is less likely to tend to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth setting ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where a subset ’s incomes and opportunity are either stagnant or falling . the immediate cause of the protests was a new tax on diesel fuel . the added costs were not all that huge ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but rising fuel prices in france have already been among the top in europe ( at around $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . the latter dynamic is playing out today , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests .
from alexander the great to stalin ’s brutal , variants of that strategists were used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he is capable of working with whatever government ukraine chooses to choose him . we now see this strategy at work once , as us president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to rebuild kremlin supremacy over the lands treated as having lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has made clear to the world with his neo-imperialist designs . to divide the peoples to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history .
if those twin deficits run at a trend of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt toward the rest of the world – currently at 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years . skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense expenditures . what it does not acknowledge is that the american states are also forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural savings deficit . in any case , the trump doctrine ’s active ingredient is burden-sharing . america has consistently run both a fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % of gdp in 2017 ) well beyond its income – and a current-account deficit .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ development efforts in recent decades . by employing plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries managed to increase their share of global manufacturing activities , create jobs , attract investment , and , in some cases , relaunch the broader industrialization process . but , for firms that exploited the opportunity to drive down costs by shifting production to the developing world , there was always a trade-off : offshore production implies a limited capacity to react swiftly to shifts in consumer demand . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” ” ” robots and other nonhuman tools , companies could shift their production sites closer to their end-markets .
even wives of men watching play at home have other issues to handle . joyce , my former taxi , has a husband who is a diehard manchester united fan . every day , she breaks at least one part of her furniture , as part of his team lose . couches are poked up in beer , and kicked in as they eat her own favorite teams . she has transformed her furniture in at least twice the number of furniture , when her team loses .
that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in the understanding of homicidal monsters like any other . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities , who have been demonized and victimized , deleuze , and guattari extended the notion of otherness to vampire . increasingly , such protagonists have become targets of academic attention , cultural criticism , and the popular culture itself . the notion that a murderous monster might symbolize a protester or operation therefore deserve sympathy , originated in the french philosophers gilles erles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . in fact , does not yet come anywhere as a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ?
copenhagen – debates about global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out growing numbers of “ impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . in march , al gore ’s scientific adviser and prominent climate researcher , josh hansen , proclaimed that , when it comes to addressing global warming , the “ democratic process is n’t working . ” hansen argues that “ the first action that people should take is to exploit the democratic process . ” though the science has proved that co2 from fossil-fuel production is overheating the planet , policymakers are reluctant to follow their counsel and stop building coal-fired power plants . but shutting down debate simply implies the disappearance of reason from public policy .
according to the inter-korean alliance ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of a share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the main cause of the rise of mps was the emergence of an imf quota system , upon which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet the quota , thereby reducing the amount for non-parties . the rise of female mps led not only to the rise of the female cabinet members , but also to a variety of policies and institutional improvements directed specifically toward women . and , though south korea slipped to 80th place at the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the downfall reflects the subsequent growth of the share of female legislators elsewhere .
for bingham , the law must be accessible and – insofar as it may be possible , intelligible , clear , and predictable . anyone should govern in accordance with laws , insulated from those ’s personal discretion in power , and legal disputes should be resolved with no prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . courts and other official adjudicative bodies should offer fair procedures . there should be equality before the law , combined with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , as well as in the purposes for which it was enshrined , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of laws ensuring that the government does n’t exceed the bounds of its authority .
in the netherlands , geert wilders of the freedom party wields just enough power to play a kingmaker ; without her backing , the far-right minority liberal government would collapse . in france , the national front , which finished second in the run-up to the 2002 presidential election , has been revitalized under marine le pen . it is the extreme right that has benefited the majority most centrists . in finland , the tireless unknown true finn party has capitalized on resentment around eurozone bailouts to aim to finalize a closed third in april of the eu ’s general election . likewise , nor is the backlash confined to individual eurozone members , particularly france , where the finance minister is established .
to be sure , the fourth factor is german business interests . the eu pays turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating the policies that no german politician should . german companies are making a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , slovakia , and slovakia – which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in both exports and imports . but here the hungarian tail is wagging the german dog .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its primary commercial partners since the eu finally decided to include in its nuclear-emission-control scheme all the way to and from its territory , including transcontinental ones . the ceos of aircraft manufacturer airbus and the major european airlines urged european leaders to step in . both china and the united states are outraged , and should not spell the day . aircraft manufacturer airbus and the major european airlines urged european leaders to step in . in response , chinese airlines delayed orders to purchase european aircraft in the first place .
when we in government looked closely at the risks in london as a financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us otherwise . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center on europe ’s periphery , free from european responsibilities , but participating fully in its opportunities . and , to a record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiating , despite its being a member . but the us was never in any position to confront europe altogether was a very different matter altogether . yes , special arrangements can be negotiated , but each has to be negotiated on a case-by-case basis .
estimates of local disease burdens will be vital to combat afflictions such as ebola , to check the rising toll of middle-income countries ’ non-communicable diseases ( ncds ) , and to meeting un sustainable development targets related to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do even more to inform policy debates and spur health-care action if it is to give more detailed data breakdowns . policymakers are responsible , first and foremost , for their constituents , whose singular needs they have to fulfill them . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and assessment – which i head – creates disease burdens geospatial burdens maps with groundbreaking resolution levels . it has also highlighted the rapidly pace of the epidemiological transition in middle-income countries and the perseverance of communicable , maternal , newborn health , and nutritional ills in sub-saharan africa .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , spain , portugal , and spain would have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise by 20 % , relative to the eurozone average . viewed from this perspective , the crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union involving a competitive peripheral country . to be sure , if germany were to leave the common currency , the path back toward competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , because a rump europe would pass through devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem will remain as long as the other competitive countries remain stuck in the euro area . the only way out would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . spain , for example , would still have to lower its prices by 22-24 % relative to its new eurozone average .
one way to bolster india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to create marine equivalents of us territorial army , training chose fisherfolk in how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . such training , along with students ’ affinity for their bodies and their expertise in braving turbulent sea , would make deployed operations highly effective when disaster strikes . to be sure , immediate relief is vital : ockhi has closed everyday activities completely in some parts of the coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s impoverished fisheries communities . but perhaps the time has come to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long-standing fisheries dependency . another issue that risks being overlooked by the focus on urgent , immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ perennial economic need .
ramallah – the united nations should stop pushing for a revival of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so may well be the best way to achieve peace – a paradox that reflects the huge chasm between the peace process and the achievement of genuine peace . make no mistake : this is neither the call to arms nor the appeal of a violent uprising . but if either party is more interested in the process than the need for peace , something is bound to turn out to be wrong . peace between the conflicting sides east of the mediterranean region and the west of the jordan river can and must be brought about by negotiations .
madrid – discussions by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency at the beginning of the year 2007 , are an unambiguous case : the period of reflection , endorsed by the european commission , has ended in 2005 . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , and laid the foundations for a political institution equal to europe ’s economic might . the two world wars and the cold war , shaped european integration as the peace project , western defensiveness , and shared economic prosperity . but the implosion of communism in 1989 and the chance to transcend a continent ’s historic divisions now required a redefinition of the european project . the treaty of nice ( in 2000 ) resulted from a rather poor compromise .
the latest fad is for us officials to sue libel newspapers demanding more than $ 1 million . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new shops and their buildings . but another crucial aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has gone silent . after grabbing influence over independent tv networks , ntv , and tv6 , russia ’s media have become vastly duller . part of the explanation for this is increased official control , part of the declining public interest , and part of the russian problem nowadays simply makes things less urgent .
true , the united states is not denmark , either . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous and what americans can learn from them . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their peoples a job that pays a respectable enough wage to sustain their healthy , fortunate life . one need not be an economist to grasp that a country ’s ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the share of the population that does make productive work within high-value jobs . according to oecd country rankings by employment , the top seven countries have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right nowadays , former us reporter timothy noah ’s ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s mounting inequality crisis and what we might do about it , and milton , and rose executive director friedman ’s classical , free choice : personal statements . upon taking their cue , my crushing thinking is that a friedmans would find their job to justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism significantly harder to do today than they did in 1979 . back then , friedmans made three powerful factual briefings around how the world works – claims that seemed true or perhaps true at the time , but that now appears fairly false . their case for small-administration libertarianism has rested in large part on such assertions ; and it has now mostly crumbled , for the time being , because the world has proved , disagreed with them about how it works . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress results from a government rather than an unstable private market or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability is straightforward and easy to achieve .
according to the africa union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion each year from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter multi-year tax-avoidance methods like base erosion and profit shifting . the g20 should now follow through on this commitment and establish a clear schedule for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such expenditures by the year 2017 onward and ban exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 needs to commit to fighting tax evasion and overhauling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the “ panama papers ” ) have used to pump money out of africa . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter taxavoidance methods , such as base erosion and profit shifting .
most immediately , unit two in southern ukraine will reach that point in under three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . the snriu will make that critical decisions without the key information about the health and ecological risks posed by the reactor that presents to ukraine and its neighbors . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to conduct a cross-border environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missed opportunities to consider potential alternatives to the continued operation of the reactor ) , no such analysis is expected to take hold . indeed , three of ukraine ’s nuclear-power units currently function beyond its design lifetime , with nine more set to reach the end of their intended lifetime in the next five years . a campaign group in neighboring croatia wrote last month to their representatives at the ebrd requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear facility until a cross-border assessment takes hold .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for addressing urban food production . and 289 investors , held close to $ 30 trillion in assets , signed onto 100 + , a five-year initiative to get involved with the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures . and oslo has created the climate budget to guide financial decision-making . at the corporate level , more than 700 companies with cumulative market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments , according to the us business coalition . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year .
already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . as proponents of asian values argued , every human right – civil and political as well as social and economic – is needed to be strengthened . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights confront a backlash . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . to succeed in setting a strong growth path , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights abuses .
a key theoretical spot in a debt-fueled transition was the re-definition of uncertainty as risk . major uncertainties in life – the destination of one ’s immortal soul – nudges one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morality . by contrast , a virtuous chinese that saves a big share of their incomes have been castigated by western economists for their inability to understand that their obligation to humanity is to spend . whereas guarding against uncertainty has traditionally been a morally justified matter , hedging against risk is a purely technical matter . this was the crux of the mathematical economics as the serious achievement .
having excluded a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right labour party , bersani will depend on senators in favor of specific measures . as a result , italy – along with the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar inability to produce a parliamentary majority enforced another general election the following month . a crisis in cyprus , one that risks turning a country into a banking system to collapse and force spain from the eurozone , could make managing the situation even more hard to manage . but there is an approach that is both inefficient and inherently unstable . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with its institutional malaise .
in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with foreign car , micro-chip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool producers . but , just over a few years ago , america ’s auto-industry auto industry pushed for a requirement in a trade deal providing it with a miniscule market share of america ’s exports to south korea . some of the conditions that were imposed then have been eased since the world trade organization prohibited them . trump is likely to dust off these tools further . if trump wants to block production from moving overseas and encouraging foreign investment , us companies might soon see us companies pushed to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing restrictions and offshoring requirements .
according to data released by the world resources institute , america accounted for astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 . america ’s population today , at just 4.4 % of the world ’s ’s ’s population , is just 4.4 % . and america ’s per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country , by far . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the global average that owes to world climate justice , rather than another way around . the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , america has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order .
for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( actually the economy grew at nearly 10 % ) , when the us stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 – or , for that matter , when the us market then recovered ( only to shrink again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been the global laggard – that is , until the last year , when it became the best performing in the world , rising by over 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market re-opened on one of the monday that followed the largest of the economic crash , at least so far . that rise predates the loss of almost one third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early june . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall to double-digit digits , without triggering a broader economic crash , at least so far .
stockholm – once again , talk has become turning to macron . i have sought to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( parallel to this period ) that tends to be heard here as an expression of “ american-style pragmatism , ” is perhaps the eu is one of the most visible tracks of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an unambiguous choice , “ simultaneously ” ” ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear , and wavering on the unsolvable mystery of the double nature – the physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ being . on the one hand , one gets to be found at the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to break some white and jewish heads . yet , very soon the us arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america .
santiago – now that populists come to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . argentines , delivered by the world ’s über-populist juan domingo perón or the brazilians who brought us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega ’s in nicaragua , and salvador allende in chile and many others engaged in trade protectionism , running large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed rampant inflation , and , ultimately , suffered currency crises . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century america conceived political populism , with its anti-elitist attitude and inflammatory rhetoric . yet there can be no disagreement that latin american elites have been the longest and best practitioners of economic populism .
what is remarkable about all this is that it has lasted for so long . it has expressed an understanding of iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , on the grounds that , as he put it , iranians are being surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , brazil , russia , and israel . israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine , which combines it with iran , or also with india and pakistan , for that matter . the political contexts matter ; the israelis will argue . but it was a recent statement by congress by secretary of defense robert gates that has been particularly shocking toward israelis .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire , the autonomous electoral commission ( cei ) announced opposition leader alassane ouattara , the country ’s winner in the november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally , paul abramao n’dre , sacked the results from seven muslim-majority departments in the north , declaring gbagbo the winner of the election with 51 % of the popular vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . the un , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara and called on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will .
unlike last year , when the rush home for the lunar new year celebration hammered out by freak storms , this year millions of migrant laborers have already returned to their own rural houses . many will remain there because the causes of the global economic downturn have hit china hard , which has been costing them their jobs . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest of 1959 , which led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . since last spring ’s riots , china ’s government has pursued many pro-active measures , even adopting the “ serf liberation front , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to defend its record in tibet of the previous 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s deputies . littered with a host of highly sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unforeseeable than in 2008 .
dealing with the deficit required difficult choices , from reforming the welfare system and raising the state pension age to controlling public-sector pay . success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open economies to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself wealthier by writing off checks on its alone . a government that lives within its means has a necessary condition for securing its economy for the long term – but that is not enough . we need accountable choices to make sure that we can live within our means – and that is what i am determined to deliver .
conversely , de-industrialization , and the concentration of growth in advanced-country service activities , is a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by the sad experience of most developing countries in recent decades . second , while pressing the technology frontier is critical to growth in industrialized nations , what matters for developing countries is the transformation of their manufacturing and export structure , especially through shifting resources to higher-level productivity activities . the key to achieving that is the capacity to diversify domestic manufacturing , by nurturing new activities , strengthening intra-country economic linkages , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . building a industrial and modern service sector is a critical component of successful diversified outcomes . indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows just that .
the oxford english dictionary give as the earliest reference to its current usage of an academic article by the eu since 1972 . the oed etymology ignores the non-english-speaking origins of the asean , which can be found inside the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . here , too , few wonder where the term “ globalization ” originated in the past . formerly , the word applied earlier , but in a rather different sense . it served as a diplomatic term conveying linkage among untrammeled policy domains ( such as bargaining simultaneously on financial and security matters ) .
without its resolve , backed by a highly credible show of military force and deft diplomacy , iraqi military programs would not now be vulnerable to a more scrutiny than that applied to any of the world ’s other would-be proliferator today . the credible threat of war was vital to achieving that extraordinary feat . the best “ grave consequences ” of which the un security council warned should iraqis fail to abide by its commitments would involve an even sharper effort to destroy their illicit weapons through sustained inspections of a country ’s offensive military capabilities : un inspectors , not invaders . if , on inspections , iraq were exposed as having lied and cheated , this would amount to confirmation of the effectiveness of un inspections , scarcely a justification for military reprisals . yet , precisely because it is so extraordinary it is hard to see how implementing these threats , by starting a war , one can make any sense .
major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . in that case , the historical analogies are imperfect , of course . clearly , cyber technology is very different from nuclear technology , mainly because it can cause non-governmental actors to exploit it far more easily . while their vision of an “ information-security ” ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and is therefore unacceptable to democratic governments , it might be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one might start with cyber-crime and cyber terrorism .
indeed , with the banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , and with a planning system incapable of imposing alternative yet efficient discipline , china is already awash with apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with huge overcapacity in heavy industrial sectors . most debt is owed within the state-owned system , for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off the bad debts and recapitalize the banks , funding the operations with either borrowing or printed money . alternatively , the banks might perpetually roll over existing debt , forever expanding new credit in order to pay off old debts . yet , as some chinese policymakers react , every growth process involve waste : nineteenth-century railways booms in britain and america has created tremendous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation . certainly , this , in turn , would have wasted investment .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure , and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion leaves the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians as a country ’s resource , and are rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that does just that . transparency is critical to such a process , which is what the government ’s strong endorsement of press freedom is so important . as president hage geingob told us , the press often says things it does not like .
it is not unimaginable that this kind of cooperation could be expanded to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may open up to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically within the current turmoil surrounding the levant . even so , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence , and into anastasiades of ’s history , provides grounds for optimism . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european helmut sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won by 57 % of a popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and that naturally becomes his top priority .
for reasons that are obscure today , there is the unwritten rule that commission presidents need to be drawn from the ranks of past , or indeed current , prime ministers . it is not some structure that rewards political coups de theâtre and most of the commission ’s job is the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . but the bottom line is that at a time when all is questioning , “ what is european ? ” , the commission ’s own inner culture and the red tape amount to a constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to speak of . yet the heads of one are called upon to be europe ’s public face .
but it is far from clear that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it is on a path toward leaving the eu ’s single market and the customs union . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop the policies that are better positioned to reap it . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that are more aligned with those of other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . britain chose to leave the eu because it had outsized opinion alone . but it would soon have to follow a small-country model like that of switzerland or norway .
second , with china ’s such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through systemically important networks ) , the next-generation economy outlook has disproportionate implications for projections of global corporate revenues . third , while companies recognize that innovation has key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , it is also humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many firms , far less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields big payoffs , end up investing less in total capital than they did in the past . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit expansion and the shadow-banking system attracts heightened attention , many companies are becoming anxious . today , successful innovation is much less about funding , and much more about finding the “ killer app . ”
stockholm – it has been one year since the failed coup in turkey ’s united kingdom , and questions about the country ’s future continue to abound . had the military not been stymied in the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have fallen into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which have been stretching well beyond its borders . in the last year , ’s attempted coup was anything if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighter bombed turkish parliament , leaving 249 people homeless . yet the putschists did not detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized its own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fate .
seoul – once again , tensions are on the rise throughout asia over north korea ’s missile program . the question for the world now , then , is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile launches , but what will happen afterward . in contrast to its recent “ “ “ surprise ” us-south korea missile launches , north korea ’s government this time has notified international agencies in advance of its launch of a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and march 8 . the un , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as having been “ provocative ” and a violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , in a mere five days after north korea conducted a nuclear-weapons test . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is the cool-headed assessment of the military ’s implications for the missile launch .
and it has just hosted the first round of a us presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . that initiative , worth recalling , was partly a reaction to georgia ’s invasion of georgia the preceding summer , when the kremlin tried to demember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree either to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasions . it has now been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which has established a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . the eu certainly deserves some credit for that outcome .
without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to dealing with crises , the continent of the new ( and old ) nationalists , in particular , will continue to gain strength , jeopardizing the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and for the eu as a whole . it will follow either the sighs of relief ( as i hope ) or the cataclysm that the eu is positioned to its core and brings disaster to the uk . but , though the brics decide , it is in europe ’s many crises that need to be addressed . a policy of child steps is no longer sufficient .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core business of managing crises . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seem wildly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy , with an unlimited expense trade dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth , again , is more prosaic . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full of three important challenges . the first , and probably easiest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image .
an increase in the monetary base does , however , merely be temporary ; when the bond is redeemed , it reverts to its old level . this eventual need to deleverage the monetary base is an implicit claim of a central-bank assets ; so the increase is rightly seen as a liability on its balance sheet . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free credit for the government ; it is a gift . under a helicopter financed fiscal stimulus , though the central bank never had to reverse an increase in the monetary base , its central bank never had to reverse an increase in its monetary base . because holders of sdrs have no say in a central bank , the increase in the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth .
her own party accused serra ’s of orchestrating the attack , and in retaliation , her own party – the liberal front ’s – threw its support behind ciro gomes . with sarney out , lula reigned the supreme front on the polls , reaching a mere 43 % at mid-may . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , in a striking distance from lula , who shrunk to 33 % . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the rural risks index abruptly topped nigeria ’s and brief credits for international trade dried up , began to change the face of the election . gomes used the tv paper to be available for his three party ’s work alliance in late june to great effect , but the majority of credit his rise in opinion polls so that his second wife and the popular actress patricia had recovered from bare cancer .
claremont , california – though a rapid escalation of violence in hong kong appears terrifying enough , things may be about to get much worse . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the chinese communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping plans to tighten his grip on a former british colonies at all costs . he should be preparing to scrape together a formidable bill , at least in part . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , regional tensions , including escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue for western sahara – hampered integration within the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today on ’s most pressing issues . it has become a global , green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewables generation to 52 % by 2030 , one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . it has been a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including the responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . those shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance vulnerabilities , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers , from monarch to parliament , judicial , and judicial reforms , such as aligning legislation with the european commission and international standards on human rights , as well as progress toward family laws and gender equality .
to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate the great sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term goal of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on at least 60 % – a of-gdp margin where countries will have the greatest difficulty resisting the temptation . after all , there is little reason to believe that either the us fiscal compact , or the proposed “ debt brakes ” , will succeed where both the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . to be sure , the american federal government never disproved a sovereign , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending . rules require a plausible enforcement mechanism . misplaced hope that enshrines the protection problem can be solved by enshrining national constitutions in us constitutions , might work to rely on a misunderstanding of america ’s regional system .
but , following amendments to india ’s patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the type of excesses that the major pharmaceutical companies routinely disengage from in the u.s. and europe . india , for example , abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention , which precludes “ evergreening ” : the process of expanding the life of each individual patent by parading third-party patents for fringe improvements to the former drug market . depending on section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ merely discovering a new form of … property , or leasing the application of a known substance or of merely using a well-known process ” ” is ineligible for a us patent unless it is a “ learning ” outcome in a new product , or employs at least one new retant . but , because the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual-property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , every world trade organization member country has had to recognize one additional ’s pharmaceutical patents . for india ’s drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of patented medicines would require license ; and such licenses are rarely , if ever granted .
the foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforests , from european governments to pope francis , are promoting biodiversity exclusively to exploit it in the future . but bolsonaro does not intend to hold amazon chaste ; he merely wants to be among those exploiting it . with characteristic misogyny , he recently proclaimed that , “ brazil is like the virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” his promotion of the rainforests ’s development , and attacks on environmental regulation , has led , for example , the prevalence of agribusiness , especially in cattle ranching , and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s ’s national space research institute , the deforestation of brazil ’s part of the amazon increased by 88 % year on year .
the most obvious is that iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran , has withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching america ’s own mainland . in short : an ill-conceived military conflict with north korea would have led to immediate global risks . to be sure , there are notable differences between north korea and iran today . trump may have begun to recognize that intensifying pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down on its dealings with kim . kim appears perfectly willing to side the north koreans in order to privations of each kind to stay in power .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would do little to impede american monetary independence . the third argument against imposing an anti-manipulation clause in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s capacity to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a rigorous misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates through altering the short-term interest rate , which involves purchasing the central bank and selling short-term treasuries . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – buying and selling the foreign currency – engages .
so it is entertaining to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , math , or cosmology is superfluous . but a joke might not have worked when there was yet another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has a value independent of any practical use . so , while potential usefulness is the reason for governments devote so much money to scholarly research , people tend to expect more from the science than that of that . after all , things would not be funny if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case is paramount , because it is actually the only real reason for a charity to exist . on this view , the science also has a quite different , larger purpose : understanding the natural world .
addis ababa – at the end of last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization have emphasized the need to place human rights at the center of the zika outbreak ’s response . but abortion politics has intervened , because republican legislators , leading a congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the challenges with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus , namely that it saddles women with too little responsibility , while ceding too little power to everyone . the un ’s position has not helped , either . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration requested that congress establish $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for , and responding to the zika threat .
at a time when these countries ’ demographic wealth would be used to meet their developmental needs . if they become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so heavily about official corruption . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas and guard its frontiers against migrants . such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public as well as to the people of tunisia , egypt and other arab countries . and european start-up loans would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortunes back home .
edmund phelps of columbia university argues that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and that of financial institutions to channel it . indeed , both spirit and necessary financial institutions must be present to allow “ creative destruction ” – a force joseph schumpeter argued sixty years were an engine of capitalist prosperity – to be unleashed . to be sure , what convenient today might look problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will confront severe problems when their demography tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they hold relative to america today . but is this an accurate description of the world of the slow-growing world ? but , in fact , this can not be what travails their economies truly have .
lula 's popularity ignacia da silva and his team - led by opinion polls at the run-up to brazil 's recent presidential election - serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is prepared to reject traditional governments . lula and his party go so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policy that capital has already started fleeing ­ - although the election is months away . in argentina , one kind of bumbling president succeeds the next . institutions are torn apart , property rights are being challenged , and incidental and ever more corrupt redistribution efforts are on the line . peru and venezuela are scarcely looking better ; brazil may soon follow the same course .
in its recent african energy outlook , the iea forecasts that africa will experience more energy consumption by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population practically doubling , fewer energy per person will come from thin . the iea also estimates that it will still cost renewable power more , on average , than any other source of it – namely , oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro – even with a carbon tax . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will generate 14kwh per year of 14kwh , slightly less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt has permanently lit . few in the rich world would shift to renewables with no heavy subsidies , and certainly nobody is cutting these ties to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered off-grid grid that provides stable power across cloudy and on night ( another form of subsidies ) . yet western activists seem convinced that the world ’s worst-off people should be content with insufficient , irregular electricity supply .
with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which the shadow banking system ’s returns based on asset pools – is at an all-time low and falling . where , then , will the high returns in financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ? with relatively sluggish growth , corporate profitability , upon which the returns of the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools are based , is at an all-time low and falling . much talk in both 2011 and early 2012 revealed the crash of china ’s housing market , with the chain-reaction of underground credit-supply defaults and local-government finance platforms . based on markets , total assets administered by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially since 2009 , totaling $ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 .
but , while the industry faces the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are eu abundance and national energy regulation . the downstream sector , together with the energy-distribution sectors , contributes about € 240 billion annually to treasury business . european industries are afflicted by similar problems on this scale by this front . the refining and petrochemicals are providing the eu with a huge share of its fuel , as well as being an important source of fiscal revenue . by anything close to reckoning , this is an important industries that should not suffer from over-regulation .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pressed back against trump . in fact , some eu leaders , looking at issues like immigration , are threatening to create systemic problems that will endure long after trump has returned to live up to golf courses and bankruptcy courts . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for letting the uk politely sending the uk start to focus its attention on its long-term cohesion and fundamental values . yet draining away from europe ’s poison will require doing much more than scolding the us and praying for trump ’s early left . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities , and it has welcomed the eu ’s poor and downtrodden .
if the world is too complex and unpredictable to either markets or governments achieve social goals , then new systems of checks and balances have to be designed so that political decision-making can constrain economic motivations and vice versa . furthermore , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super structure erected on market fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may in fact prove empowering , because it implies the opportunities for improvement in economics and politics . if the world is marked by ambiguity and unpredictability , then the pre-crisis economic theories , of rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality , have to be revised .
likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce the incentives created by almost every country ’s existing tax regimes , to corporate leverage . nor can “ austerity alone ” suffice , because it would require countries to make such large-scale fiscal adjustment – 5 % of gdp , in spain , ’s case , that citizens would probably resist them , as greeks did . governments must also work to reduce existing debt , as well as the deficient global demand that it contributes . an increasingly effective approach would employ a broader set of tools , including debt restructuring . it is simply not workable for highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt .
tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated with the idea that the world will be better off selling their businesses to the top bidder . and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to services . much has been written about extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during their height of the financial crisis . but silicon valley ’s ceos are no robin hoods , either . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has earned him the “ fatwa ” to the apostasy of the head imam of the bradford mosque . moreover , he never wavered on critical issues relating to legal and practical equality for women , or expressing his dismay at the growing number of niqabs and hijabs now seen in london ’s streets , which bar people , notes , from a speech face to face . one might say that no less could be expected to put a labour leader with a bright , forward-looking country in churchill ’s country . but one has still to go through , confessing that khan did not yielded in these affairs to the facile communitarianism common to the other side of the channel . for europe , this is what is called a necessary principle .
aggregators can then present a client with an integrated view of their finances , offering add-on services . perhaps the time to evaluate financial-stability risks from open banking was during consultation period before the directive was passed . even now , the list of fsb contributors shows that the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america were missing . in europe , regulatory changes such as the second pay-as-you-go ( psd2 ) directive ( psd2 ) have been decisive in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s eurocrats have spent some time running regulatory sandboxes in order to freeze ways of new entrants by helping to structure themselves to comply with standards . psd2 , often described as being “ open banking , ” requires banks to offer their customers data to non-bank providers of payment and account information services .
a classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should be exporting a wood that finland did . but all of finland ’s wood-related goods represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . a traditional development economist , on the other hand , would argue that it should not export a wood ; instead , it should add value by converting a wood into a paper or furniture , something that finland , too , does . some idea is actually worse than wrong : castrating , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues – say , affordability in the form of raw material – and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that might lie elsewhere . consider finland , the nordic country , having endowed many trees for its small population .
this more profound transformation , in contrast to the low-hanging fruit eyed many policymakers today , offers the sole pathway to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient cars , but zero-carbon electricity and power vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . we need only come to get to zero-emission vehicles , not more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . by pursuing coal to gas or gas or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we run the risk of pulling ourselves into the high-carbon trap . we need to reach around 50 grams / kilowatt-hour by 2050 rather than 500 grams / kilowatt-hour .
( indeed , south korea ’s grand economic debate nowadays concerns whether the chaebols ’ stifling innovation by preventing startup competitors from challenging them . ) to succeed , conglomerates need government support and acceptance . rather than become agents of change , they often avoid change . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with backing , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) the conglomerates toward export-oriented industries that can keep growing beyond domestic boundaries – industries in which competition encourages the discipline that they lack , owing to dominating local markets .
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? how is it to define its own interests in these nations ? working groups might be formed to try to create a shared narrative . does it actually see itself , as many sunni arabs assert themselves as the protector of shia arabs ? negotiation would also have to cover up on contemporary issues , including the tour aeronautics of current hotspots .
domestically , china will become the first country to which , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth , is compelled to pursue a “ green ” economy . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , rather than western , parts of the west . domestically , china will become the first country to which , owing to its sheer size and demanding gdp growth , is compelled to pursue a “ green ” economy . lest we get the same bang for the buck , china would quickly reach its “ limits on growth , ” with catastrophic geographic and – the result – political repercussions . given that china will be the leading market in the future , this would be decisive in determining not only what the us produce and consume , but also how .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases need to convey the clear intention of reducing sovereign-interest-rate rates to sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on the grounds that spain had been borrowing at almost identical rates in the 1990 ’s . but this statement largely ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation , thereby confusing real and nominal rates and more rapid gdp growth . for countries following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and to announce how long this will continue ( say , nine months ) . a sporadic program , without such announced goals , is unlikely to work , and might even prove counterproductive , because it might well demand even higher returns , because a rising ecb share of gdp would be treated as high , augmenting their risk .
but that rule succumbed , rather quickly went to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s generic argument , that a plausible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion , remains very influential . the inflation targeting was best known as the rule , which mandated central banks to set – and tried their way forward – by a target range for an annual rate of change in the consumer-price index ( cpi ) . closely the cousins included targeting pricing levels in place of inflation , and targeting core inflation ( the cpi minus a volatile food and energy price ) . there were also proponents of a flexible , inflation-targeting regime , who held that it was fine to put some weight on real gdp growth in the short run , so long as there was a clear longer-term cpi inflation target . but some felt that defining it was downsized too far , it would lose all of its meaning .
firms in advanced economies today are cutting jobs , owing to inadequate final demand , resulting in excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but offshoring weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor incomes and increases inequality . because a firm in labor costs is someone else ’s in labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in the aggregate . in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply pushed the share of labor income out of gdp . the result is that free markets do not generate enough final demand .
but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs is very different from what it replaces . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted foreign competition , much of the competition that local economies currently face is not coming from abroad , and many of the jobs lost are not in industries directly affected by outside competition , but in surrounding economies . meanwhile , employment at amazon grew at an average of 47 % in the us , to 341,000 in the last year . as with the geographic relocation of us manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution to this type of ailment . nor are import tariffs helping those left unemployed by the blockbuster video-struck , frontiers , compusa , circuit towns , payless , or virgin megastores .
after this spectacular russian default , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic , and faces the threat of a genuine democracy in his outlandish neighbor spreading to russia . yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of the type putin has defeated at home , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of having sold ukrainian companies to russian corporations . moreover , as long as ukraine becomes an international pariah , ukraine alone can turn to russia , as is often the case with president aleksandr lukashenka in belarus . president putin ’s behavior is perhaps best explained by his dislike of democracy . for the first time , ukrainians have thrown their swiss brother ’s complex toward russian overboard .
for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of workers needed on factory farms , work-chain strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and manage migration in cities become even more vital . fortunately , africa , ’s large population of an increasingly well-educated young person , largely uninterested in the hindu work of subsistence farming , is well positioned to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge inside and outside the agricultural sector . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , it is not much time to waste in implementing such strategies . to be sure , farm-related development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . another potential pitfall in agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , land nutrient mining , heavy water usage , and water-pollution .
such critics worry that this will make it harder to persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes clear that their collective efforts are insufficient and might even allow some countries to implement irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima agreement ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into just two types of countries , evolved and evolve . for many of the paris agreement ’s critics , particularly those within the ecb , such compromises made the lima agreement an excessively “ bottom-up ” treaty . countries have too little latitude to make whatever commitments they are willing , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules embedded in the accord . it almost certainly wo n’t have .
her refusal to strike on her own is probably the main reason why she continues to lead various opinion polls in the first place . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned a pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the lead backer of senegal ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping wide hints that she might become a presidential candidate . moreover , recent opinion polls consistently show that majorities of voters distrust the incumbent government and the ruling party . ahn has the most obvious merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges , as well as his modest embrace of activism . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of a country ’s anti-park , and past anti-president lee myung-bak myun-bak forces , attracting young people just as much .
dhaka – we humans do n’t just share the planet with a set of other species , including plants , animals , people , and even microbes ; indeed , we all depend on them for our very survival . some people will balk at the idea of throwing a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that preventing human death and suffering , while providing food , water , and education to all , is vitally important . the reality is that there are simply not enough resources to do all of them . can we determine the economic value of conserving the natural world ?
and , elsewhere in the region – the tiny pacific island states , in particular – vulnerability to climate-related effects increases . so far , widespread infrastructure gaps in many emerging and developing countries persist , notably in power and transport . while a response will certainly have to be tailored to individual countries ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations could help most countries : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth-in case downside risks materialize . in fact , this shifting landscape is calling for bold action on several fronts .
the brics concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make a global order more plural . if the brics countries are to jell as a kind of pressure group within international relations , it will have to agree on what they believe to be an indispensable political and economic goal . the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the us-led global order more plural . more broadly , they are united in their frustration with – but not in their proposed responses to – the us dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship any brics country has at its disposal .
i then focused on accountability from the web and gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) to the next sequence of events : i was able to say , the world cup : i was able to turn a focus on the web and the gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) to the next sequence of events : i was able to work with each other . first , an almost infinite , amount of speech is set free of digital democracy . the web then becomes a crowd , a free-for-all where all demonstrate armed with his or her preferred opinions , convictions , and truth . and , third , there has been the “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , placed truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) separating our mark from its referent ( louis althusser ) and miring the sight in a miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , they are likely to lose us contact with the simple and irreversible aspects of truth .
but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program released shortly before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . solna , sweden , elite sports , and doping have long been deeply interlinked . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to make ends meet this deeply unhealthy practice , and to save the elite sports . reaching the elite level in sports requires grossly tremendous work and dedication . by definition , few succeed , but those who do might enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in north iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might well come to an end . but the defeat of isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate wo n’t bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the late period of world war i. we will see no end in sight . continuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains incapable of resolving internal conflicts on its own or to forge anything like a resilient framework for peace . the eu remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
why are we prone to under-investing in our economies ’ resilience ? one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out of higher investment . that seems distinctly wrong : multiple expert estimates indicate that the built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , one that is both psychological and behavioral at character . even the rapid response is more effective when key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – are resilient .
right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , battling inflation , and the china central bank now indicates that it may raise interest rates further . in october , the people ’s bank of china , responding to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25-basis points , to 2.5 percentage points and 5.56 % , respectively , in the near term – the first rate hike since 2007 . in the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth have triggered a fearful sell-off in us markets . in the us , developing countries , meanwhile , are also moving in the opposite direction . meanwhile , developing countries have been moving in the opposite direction .
traditionally , contracts in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . larger firms are more capable of sharing the resources for research and development that is key to china ’s aspirations to climb the ladder of value . a less fragmented sector , too , lobby the better . traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . for example , producers in jiangsu have been pressed to adjust relentlessly to fickle product-safety , as well as environmental standards in export markets .
this puts chinese policymakers in the position of an iranian tourist asking directions to dublin , and is told , “ well , well , sir , ” if i was you , would not start from here . that may have been true once again in china ; it is no longer true today . no question , the country would have been better off with a more flexible exchange rate that has eliminated one-way bets on speculators and behaved like an economic shock absorber . yet the literature of “ exit strategies ” – on how to substitute a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate – makes it seem obvious that the moment when china could manage this transition smoothly has passed . countries can exit a pegged tariff smoothly only when there is confidence in the economy , encouraging the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate just as much as weaken .
the senate bill ’s provision on derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such constraints , have clearly lined up on the side of big banks . a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . the us legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but merely to bar implicit government guarantees subsidized by us taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , however , america ’s government would be remiss to go down things as it is . in fact , there are many ways that curbing big banks ’ excesses .
if finalized , the imf program could unleash further aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . unfortunately , the most recent political incident involving the democracy-promotion activities has cooled bilateral relationships , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in us military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states . egypt ’s ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . even with the affordability of external finance , egypt could start addressing some of its financing problems , but it remains in need of a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the affordability of external finance , egypt could start addressing some of its financing problems , but the long term strategy is needed to spur sustainable growth .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented by the advent of free food ) or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity issues . being physically present at work implies direct contact with the other sharp and creative minds . interestingly , i have heard this point at wpp “ disconference ” in the phuket , thailand , where just a few hundred people have walked thousands of miles away to meet facing sharing ideas and strengthening working relationships . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are what salespeople still call customers , rather than exploited by skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face encounters ; i am on corporate boards ) changes in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . of course , those who preferred to work at home cite not only costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings , too much culture , perhaps and the steady stream of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
while world goods trade has stalled , and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have already surged : cross-border bandwidth has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide . the quality-of-opportunity relationship , with infrastructure , energy costs , and speed it is assuming more weight in such decisions . within the near future , 3d printing could reduce the need to ship goods across long distances . with globalization in place , however , it is not in once again in retreat . if trade in global goods actually peaked relative to global gdp , things would become harder for poorer countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
compared to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade deals , as well as less on multilateral negotiating rounds . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed “ to growing an open global economy . ” but in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will be different from globalization . xi and his inner circle evidently will not seek to dismantle the global trading system . in 2002 , china signed the framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits of foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . within singh ’s party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . the national congress can justifiably take credit for what is most far-reaching such a program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor , rural family 100 days per year of paid job . with his 20-year record on accomplishment to show popular power , singh has a better case than most to be trusted voters as he puts it in their long-term interest . all politicians in democracies are thinking in the short term ; few have the time horizons that extend beyond the next election .
this means , like loan guarantees by italian and spanish banks over the past few months , most of the new money will be lent locally to safe households and big established firms . the alternative is the one urged on by sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by european countries ’ government bonds . the banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements , and to rebuild their balance sheets on financial health , which implies using ecb money in ways that deter them from meeting this objective most effectively costs . so , for example , if they use the money in order to continue funding the private sector , they will ensure that the loans go to creditworthy customers . that will allow the bank markets to continue functioning but is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that europe ’s economies now require .
but symbolic actions , while important , do not suffice to bring about real progress . turkey has an important role to play both in its region and the world – one that is undermined by its continuing denial of the armenian genocide . its erstwhile approach to the end of the genocide is inconsistent with its effort to cultivate its reputation as an honest , reliable partner . turkey ’s ruling government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions truly protect the human rights of all of its citizens . in doing so , it would improve its standing both in and outside europe .
many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the inability of such institutional arrangements in the past . moreover , there is no attempt by foreign investors to deal with diplomats or civil-servant states . they like to talk to private-sector experts , who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs , or that of their industries . they like to advance fdi separately from domestic investment and exports . yet , aside from costa rica ’s foreign-investment agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices .
big mining companies can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials such as iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth entangt , and lithium , as well as mineral fertilizers needed in large measure to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . big mining corporations can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials such as iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , rare earths , and lithium , all of which will be needed in bulk to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction might even do at a profit . with the paris climate agreement a year ago , the transformation in global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining ’s environmental dangers .
max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in cambridge in 1935 to jobs like an individual graduate student . the following year , part of it was given excellent hemoglobin crystals , and it was soon producing the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . but the observable diffraction pattern -- that of intensities and positions of individual reflections -- represents only about half of the data needed to decode the structure of the diffracting object . it also acquired the first x-ray set of patterns of principally oriented samples of dna . in math , this gives amplitude , but not phases more of the phases -- i.e. , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which there was no determination to be made .
the endgame to determine europe ’s final shape in the world is underway . it began with the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe ( defending ) of the first sixteen articles of the “ treaty to establish its constitution for europe . ” in fact , the text mostly replicates the very fabric of convention european commission chairman valery giscard d'estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution presented last november and the findings reached by the convention on labor groups . the key word here is now underway . a key word here , in most places , is underway .
in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion annually , firms are paying more to do business . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of us companies experience personalization , bear them above 15 % of their annual sales , on average . likewise , while all firms need data on investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always robust , and often skewed in their political agendas . in pakistan , for example , the census scheduled for 2008 has been delayed for nine years and beset by problems when it was finally being conducted . driven by population growth and urbanization , youth demand is an outstripping supply .
russia today has fewer press freedom and more female journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any point since the soviet union ’s implosion in 1991 . the bbc media team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets like the siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad top independent weekly paper , novye kolesa . each of these outlets was distinguished by its coverage of sensitive stories – from the conflicts in ukraine to high-level corruption . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are nonexistent .
cambridge – this month , thousands gathered for the united nations climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition to fight climate change . the idea is simple : if we meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the rise in global mean temperature to below 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels – we need to cut emissions dramatically dramatically . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses around the world are finally taking urgent action . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to place a value on carbon dioxide emissions .
there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , or new york . the scale of such an operation would be immense , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . once greece went , run by bank deposits is likely to follow in spain and italy . at that point , the one thing still stands between the eurozone and the us in terms of financial chaos will be the ecb , which could buy up government bonds and fund the run for bank runs . but it could essentially step in – if it allowed northern europeans to exit .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , have frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system has enabled him to remain in power for 31 years and use civilian – rather than criminal , courts to harry his opponents . more importantly , however , lee also relied on elements of a democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage . yet the path on which the two countries embarked has not been lee ’s path . here , it seems clear that inept political interests have been allowed to dictate the country ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no real democracy that embraces the rule of law would even weigh leveling the issue , with convicted on evidence that no truly independent judiciary to accept .
are all his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely called them ? trump , in the comedian alvaro uribe ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” ” ” ” or at least the id of a big number of mostly white , mostly small-town americans . are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , called them ? trump , his critics argue , plays to disaffected voters who supposedly hate foreigners ( particularly mexicans ) , mistrust the bankers ( or anyone with a higher education to do so ) , and yet can not rally beyond the elections of a president whose father was also black . for now , all of this may be so .
spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s major economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still show no sign of improvement . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in may 2009 and is forecast to shrink at a 0.4 % rate this year . in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the ex-boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . for finland , britain and italy , below-average growth rates are anticipated .
indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is the way it should be : as the beverage maker gatorade reminds us , “ “ your brain may know a lot , but it never knows when your body is thirsty . ” sure , drinking that much does not feel comfortable but powerade provides this sage counsel : “ “ you may be able to train your batch to tolerate more fluid as you build your fluid intake gradually . ” malmö – “ everyone knows ” – that you should drink eight water glasses a day . a healthy , livingstone now means running water with us , sipping up all the time , trying to drink our everyday quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy . after all , that is the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service .
can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities that require long-distance automobile commutes ? businesses are prepared to make investments at a time when consumer demand is plummeting and faces unprecedented disincentives to punishments at their borrowing costs . indeed , what kinds of coal-fired power plants are supposed to be acceptable in the future ? will they , as in the past , be allowed to emit co2 ? they , too , run into enormous uncertainties .
as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders ’ meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 has an occasion to reshape the migrant governance ( isp ) , with proactive protection policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a global system of governance have weakened inter-governmental agencies ’ capacity to conduct authority on behalf of the most vulnerable . at present , the alphabet soup of die-both nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . these include autonomous groups such as the refugees , transnational ( ir ) , and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . though past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect of action is better this time , given the emerging talks in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been profoundly felt .
until the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 ’s computers in the us ; their processing power averaged about 10,000 machine instructions per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder gordon moore noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication enable a doubling of the transistors ’ density of a chip every eighteen months . the scale of investment needed to make what is known as moore ’s law “ hold ” has grown exponentially through the density of the transistors and districts , but “ moore ’s law ” remains valid , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers that will push the process of improvement aimed at quitting the pause anytime soon . there is every reason to believe that this pace of increase in productivity growth will continue for decades to come . there are now more than a generation ago , intel co _ founder gordon moore noted that improvements in the semiconductor fabrication made possible by a doubling of the transistors every eighteen months .
xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” and right now , we are on the brink of yet another frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . these multidimensional , scalable interventions are helping to bridge the gaps in development regions . by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education , and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friendships , we can reach an even greater number of people in xinjiang of nomadic communities . but neither corporations nor governments alone can do that alone . they need working together to deliver the best possible outcome .
at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the us state department to initiate substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated several rounds of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , it is obama ’s turn , pushing for a united nations security council resolution that sets the new parameters for a future accord on peace , replacing united nations security council resolution 242 that dates back to the 1967 six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . fortunately , he still has the time , with many earlier american presidents having set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their closing months at the white house . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace .
loughner ’s firing of 19 people back in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , had attracted global attention because of the court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . loughner of firing another 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did the court-ordered evaluation of his or her mental competency . indeed , on the other side of the world , an australian paper that signaled giffords 160 times in the six months after firing , compared to just one mention for the past 12 months . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed . in this manner , america may well be exporting the mental-illness the rest of the world .
for europe , this represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , greater transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe . more important , successful reforms in ukraine are making a positive development across russia more likely . ukraine is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and a growth potential in many sectors . it is a key front in a worldwide confrontation between democracy and autocracy .
rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter as long as bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . civil strife and the rise of the neo-nazi party across europe hold together these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . at one extreme , the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar assumes that euro-zone countries can not be a federalized state . but this strategy carries serious risks , which ultimately make it ununworkable . realigning relative prices would require an internal devaluation that can lead to social and political instability in weaker countries .
the problem arises when expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and the central-bank guarantee of orderly markets prove inadequate . economists disagree about when , according to what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond such first two articles across the checklist . should governments try to increase monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby keeping short-term interest rates low ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes improve ? should they employ unemployed workers directly or indirectly , by bringing forward reserve expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ?
the uk ’s ministers were held mainly accountable for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambitions than their competence – had so far succeeded in securing agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period would start . it also includes a promise to leave both the eu ’s single market and the customs union . one can be in a frictionless customs union or outside the border-free customs union . but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether the negotiators can put their first agreement on what to do about the border between northern ireland and northern ireland once the uk leaves the customs union . there is no example anywhere in the world where this is not true .
a broader definition is required , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target , within a 1.5-2.5 % band , over a longer time horizon . given the eurozone ’s highly fragmented nature , this mandate should probably remain centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is far too narrow . at the same time , the eurozone is sufficiently fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , unifying safe asset , or trading tools to stabilize them . at the same time , the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate .
new york – the israel-palestine conflict has so far lasted for far too long . so many hope has vanished at the sour failures of so many negotiations . but the us has a wish for a middle east – one that , while perhaps not delivering on peace , can establish one in terms of peace ’s preconditions : goodwill . israel and palestine should collectively offer , and be awarded , the 2018 arab soccer world cup . when it comes to wishing for middle east peace – virtually a second year of ’s big political ­ – one needs careful attention .
so the real issue is how we can get to the point where iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted to maintain law in the same way as order . in other areas , including armed forces , sharia law is introduced by force . notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have motives rather than pure . sharia law is introduced in other areas as well . in northern iraq , old scores are settled , and de facto ethnic segregation is being put in place in regions like irbil that have traditionally been varied .
indeed , unemployment stands at around 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) and annual gdp growth of around 1 % ( spain ’s per capita growth rates are negative ) . so the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the differentiation between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the manner rumsfeld had meant to say . of course , it would be incompletely inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland to a collapsing spain . but moods in both countries , as well as their perceptions about europe and their role within it , are starkly opposite . given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s very economy is no longer booming .
berlin – a decision by the united kingdom ’s labour government to “ “ brexit ” the european union is not an example of the kind of british black humor that i love . at the very moment , the same can not be said of the uk . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave the eu ’s gaping hole . but it will not destroy europe itself . it ’s not “ monti ty python ’s ’s flying circus , ” ” “ “ “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it is a case in point ; we just boris , michelle and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political reality shows .
but , for both parties , as well as for external powers , the 1948 events and what followed , the occupation since 1967 , the occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestinian – represent a tragic failure . israel is most at a fault of that failure , owing to its continuing military occupation and illicit settlements . but , for both parties , as well as external powers , the events of 1948 and what followed , the occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestinian – represent a tragic failure . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians will recall the nakbeh or “ disaster ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupying , and statelessness . despite providing lip service to peace , israeli military ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories permanently to what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 identifies as the “ inadmissible take of land by force . ”
tantalizingly , admittedly , that would create “ a market-based view of future output and the probability of severe shocks , ” though they do not explain how this market is structured . a government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale that is sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a publicly funded scheme over privately owned insurers . reducing uncertainty might augment or even supersede , the kind of fiscal stimulus programs that would address the root cause of the unwillingness to spend . moreover , recession insurance might , unlike fiscal policy , impose no costs on governments , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk to be insured against is preventing it . blanchard and his colleagues highlight the fact that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchases of recession insurance that might help loan markets function better , tackling the profound problem underlying the current crisis .
thus far , enforcement has failed , owing to eurozone banks ’ fundamentals . the greek saga shows that this system can not run up destabilizing imbalances fast enough to ward off major crises . first , the absence of fiscal and external-account balances is to remain in check to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . thus far , enforcement has failed , owing to the eurozone ’s flaws on the basis of the rescue regime arranged by supranational bodies – the european commission and the ecb – in collaboration with the european council that in turn represent national governments . the imbalances are not solely the product of irresponsible policies .
specifically , china ’s “ one country ’s two systems ” have allowed exports to bonded storage in hong kong to get used to pad trade statistics . as a result , its trade surplus has continued to plummet , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing concern about a chinese slowdown . in fact , the chinese economy ’s fortunes have long been obscured , but they have now been exposed with tighter regulation of activities like the renminbi ’s speculative trading masquerading as trade payments . in fact , the chinese economy ’s fundamentals have long been obscured , but they have now been exposed by tighter regulation of activities like speculative renminbi trading masquerading as trade payments . notably , china ’s “ two systems ” have allowed exports to bonded stores in hong kong to get used to pad trade statistics .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly as long as business leaders adhere to the newly articulated precepts of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine is currently in latin american countries – they hold a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably for the sake of their companies , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . so clear rights and obligations must therefore be carefully worked out in the early stages of investment , something that was all but absent previously . for most equity investors , the value of any project depends heavily on effective post-investment management . after all , m & a is just the first step on a long journey .
and our embrace of us with our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s own self-defense forces . as the world sees during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving . to make a proactive contribution to peace means japan shoulder its own share of responsibility for assuring a security that supports global prosperity and stability . members of the self-defense forces demonstrate exemplary collaboration with the american and australian armed forces in the wake of the great eastern japanese earthquake in 2011 , and earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere , including haiti , indonesia , singapore , and , most recently , the philippines . working alongside countries with which we share shared values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and sea .
for all that israel has downplayed its significance , the arab peace initiative of 2002 continues to offer a critically important bargain : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league position be sustained with a negotiated peace talks go nowhere in sight ? how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad be left with any credible negotiating capacity if the talks can not start until , as israel continues to insist , they retreat by their minimal condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? israel , as its founding father david ben-gurion has warned , can be a jewish state , and may become an occupying state of historic israel ; but it can no longer be all three . another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if the two-state solution disappears altogether from the agenda .
nor was the kind of crisis that brought about corruption that was affecting the officialdom at all levels or that caused russia to lose its own democratic dynamic . we russians were riding on oil and gas , forgetting that those resources will not last forever . but , even with favorable global markets , we have failed to address the underlying poverty problem , in which millions of russians still live . what i have in mind is that russia is ’s woes all coming down on its politics . the us needs a democratic , competitive , open environment ; initiative at all levels ; an engaged civil society ; and genuine public control .
but allowing greece to default , and continuing to remain in the eurozone , is no choice : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass enormous debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying them . meanwhile , forcing greece out of the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would plunge greece into economic , social , and political instability , with the doubtless facing serious repercussions beyond countries on its borders . in my judgment , there are now only two viable possibilities that remain . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess greece ’s lack of solvency , and so stop providing ela funds to its banking system . fiscal responsibility within the eurozone would be fatally undermined .
for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public land if its landowners fail to initiate the development process at least as part of a year . additional saving is possible via industrialized approaches , such as using components – walls and flooring slabs – built offsite . that brings us to the second key lever to expand affordable housing : a more cohesive , efficient construction industry . as it stands , housing-construction sectors are highly fragmented , impeding their ability to take economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same methods used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and flooring , building companies can cut costs and raise productivity as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks .
for many of these countries , hpv vaccines are not just effective solutions , one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 who are vaccinated ; that is often the only solution , because the world ’s poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly demanded hpv vaccines . this makes good sense : of the 268,000 women who die each year from cervical cancer – averaging just one every two minutes , 85 % are in developing countries . this is one reason why the study of cancer specialists , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the one-tenth of cervical , breast , and prostate cancer . if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths .
washington , dc – ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships between private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . in the meantime , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . a handful of high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva , the country is now under investigation . already , corruption scandals have reached the highest levels of brazilian society .
i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but warnings that support becomes fragile , very much in the hands of , say , globalization nowadays . this raises the long-term well being around , but exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . in fact , most countries rely far too little on command and control , and they provide far too few incentives for patients and providers to make efficient choices . some societies might be able to decide that they are better off than they are dead . nevertheless , one remains to be seen whether the impact of health-care pressures will ultimately reverse the current trend toward more open ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with much of the economy reverting to a more socialist system .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell the equations that depict the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ has an independent existence and an intelligence of self-expression to be wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out than had originally been put into them . ” not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s nuclear model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thinking . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discoveries of new laws in the sciences , declared , “ you can recognize the truth with its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never produce working iphones , photos of pluto be pluto be assembled , or of atomic bombs .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in the war of attrition ; all of them understand that adjustment is necessary but expect the other group to bear slid its toll . why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , has the government chosen an predictably disastrous course of action , at a cost of such high human beings ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intention , and strategic interaction . first , let ’s start with the last . by delaying , they give information to the other group about its willingness to withstand the pain .
by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation – or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the us would set in motion a rapid rebalancing in europe . rather than seeing the 30 % euro appreciation following the ecb ’s ’s ’s current monetary-policy stance , german exporters would shout for measures to prevent america ’s embrace of competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” finally bringing about moderate inflation in the north , rather than the current grinding depression of the south . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better , more secure world for america . a world in which the us has a proven record of honoring the trust it demands to play the role of global economic hegemon is a far better world for america than is one in which it is not trusted . here is where the fed comes in .
and a group of 47 republican senators has wrote a letter to iran ’s nato leaders announcing that the next us congress may not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . but ensuring that the us can continue its leadership in the twenty-first century will require quite another type of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in remaining in the region ’s multilateral engagement , and this has always been harder than bilateral engagement . true , multilateral leadership requires not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to shoulder the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold the “ responsibility to protect ” ” civilians or taking concrete action to reduce – and ultimately eliminating – their nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have bankrupted their countries . while claiming to be the redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” ” bolivarian cause , they reject international aid , force venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , to die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and health-care systems . that requires a new government of questionable legitimacy , chose through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution . the devastation of venezuela must be stopped urgently , if its viability as a state and society has to be rebuilt . to be sure , maduro and his associates do not simply step down , because losing power would probably entail lengthy prison terms at the united nations on drugs trafficking in drugs or at the hague for crimes against humanity .
indeed , over the last 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in coastal provinces . but the efficacy of such investments will depend on the sequence and rates of their implementation , and on how skillfully they are tailored to every locality of distinct resources , needs and aspirations . so far , china has largely taken the “ dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ build it , and they will come it . ” and now , just as china ’s leaders increasingly seem to be taking that strategy inland , forcing critical investments in both physical and human capital . four interrelated issues must be tackled .
if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s ’s regime will be almost totally isolated internationally . his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , made his relations with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and in the recent us , all of which earned him a halt to mocking loudspeaker broadcasts . will kim react to that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , lest it become more flexible ? that is not an easy question for kim to offer . it should be obvious to kim by now that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country .
europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries are badly in need of more migrants . europe alone can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , european countries are badly in need of more migrants . the figures are perplexing and sometimes contradictory ; but the european union , which has at its current foreign-born population of some 33 million , may grow by another 100 million immigrants by mid-century . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has highlighted this issue , referred to as the “ social and ethnic apartheid states ” that have developed throughout his country . the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some of our young people .
countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals phone calls the shots . non-english academic journals simply do not command the same level of attention in the sciences . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their presence along channels that determine whether or not a scientist will have prosperous careers , developing countries will be forced to invest heavily in their own data-infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive footing . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . as a result , the scope of research topics that many countries can make is limited and must struggle to retain scientific talent .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s transnational currency fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address such fears head-on . he should be judged not by his past or her ties to the trump administration , but through his grasp .
there are , in essence , two competing explanations of the issue . the first , the secular stagnation hypothesis was suggested by larry summers . its key premise is that an equilibrium interest rate at which demand would rebalance supply currently is at or below current real interest rates . that seems paradoxical as because interest rates are already near zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real rate of interest ; that is , the difference between the market rate and the level of inflation .
but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that bring together globalization ’s opportunities with a strong domestic foundation . for the nobel cup ’s victors was not cameroon , or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams put together with star players from european leagues , but in egypt , which fielded just four players ( outside the bottom 23 ) that play throughout europe . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans watching that game , but egypt was playing far better and deserve to win . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt had vanquished at its last , featured just a single player from a home club , with 20 from european clubs . for their part , african players got grumbled that its absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial league time play .
berlin – the world ’s task in resolving north korea ’s saber rattling is no easy feat by confronting an impoverished , effectively defeated country . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars was that it was not pushing a defeated france into a corner . on the contrary , it is under such circumstances that calm foresight is the most necessary . though metternich struggled to deter any potential french resurgence , metternich restored france ’s prewar frontiers . on the other hand , as henry kissinger argued , victors in world war i could neither dissuade a defeated germany nor provide incentives to accept the treaty of versailles .
america had a short , sharp-led recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . in fact , many economists believed that it was one prominent episode and probably the appropriate way to think about it in the context of a broader historical context . but what really did grow in the interim , just barely enough to consider them distinct recessions . and , because they were separated by a transition from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , there was , in fact , a politically consequential way of identifying the two recessions . sometimes dating back to recession is an invitation to judgment .
in reality , the vast majority of sanctions against small countries back then are imposed by big countries . in the 1990s , for example , the us imposed sanctions regimes at an average rate of roughly seven per year . during bill clinton ’s presidency , the estimated is that around 40 % of the world ’s ’s ’s population or 2.3 billion was met with some form of american sanctions . of the 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds were the unilateral united nations sanctions . currently , the us has almost 8,000 un sanctions globally , with iran by far the largest sovereign target .
in the same tweet , justifying his phone call with tsai , trump reiterated a bogus accusation that china is devaluing its currency in order to gain export benefits to america ’s america . his knowledge of international economics is either non-existent or 10 years off date . in reality , china is hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves now , desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . making matters worse , by announcing its withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) – established , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows according to western regulations – trump is also abandoning an american policy that might have checked china ’s surging influence in asia . trump is apparently antagonizing china for no good reason .
after all , china is a widely mentioned candidate , but its management is mostly focused on consolidating domestic order and keeping economic-growth rates artificially high in order to stave off popular unrest . meanwhile , china ’s interest in regional and global institutions appears intended mainly to bolster its economy and geopolitical clout , rather than to help set regulations and establish broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , in a narrowly-run economy , led by a state-directed , state-directed economy , rather than harking back to establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe , russia is a land with a narrowly-based economy , driven by the kremlin . what we are doing well aware of is that there is no alternative great powers willing and able to take a step in , assuming what was america ’s role in the world . india is preoccupied with challenges to its economic development , and tied down its
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and its lowest growth since last year in the second quarter of 2009 . a newfound growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china ; but it did drive many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual growth . as a result , annual inflation plunged in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data , appear to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . the slowdown in china ’s us growth rate , to some extent , reflects the government ’s success in trying to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as other official policies aimed at reining in the us economy . since early 2010 , to contain and property bubbles , the chinese government has been tightening monetary policy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a strong case to be made for comparing one person with one ’s own personal freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by carrying either unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to the term . yet , given how rife with misinformation and rebel forces by misplaced arguments about the issue , policymaking debates often take nowhere unless they frame abortion first and foremost as health issues .
each day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by the promise of employment , resources , and a better life simply to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and to realize their children grow up in the slum . the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda . without access to education , this generation – which will soon be majorities – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but for how much longer will a majority serve one minority ? at least half of those living in urban slums are beneath the age of twenty .
disasters lurking in the distances are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; volcanic eruptions ; earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and the extinction of nonhuman populations ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; the junk air and water ages ; the hollowing out of forests , farms and fish . all of these catastrophes – and many more still envisioned – are possible , and many are unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost , to prevent all . the trouble is that the principle can not – and must – be consistently applied to the top . a world in which we live is a small backyard of well-surveyed territories surrounded by a dim , dark catastrophe .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , fundamental economic policies have centered on high unemployment . the massive job losses of the great depression – reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt that had been accumulated to fund it , recovered economic growth – have a lasting impact on at least two generations . but employment is just one facet of welfare ; in today ’s world , that is not enough . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the sino-american rivalry , on the other hand , involves two economies that are so closely integrated and that of the rest of the world . the twentieth century ’s cold war , in the wake of the cold war , was fizzled by two competing military alliances against each other .
from 1968 to 1973 , the british labour party and its conservative governments organized the elimination of all living on the 55 islets that now comprise british ocean territory ( biot ) and split away from mauritius at its height of its independence . the way the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and lashed out off their lands in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy , for which the west can and should make its restitution . the chagossians were shipped off through the seychelles and mauritius , where they are deposited , to fend for themselves . doing so was done at the behest of the united states that at the time was embroiled in the vietnam war and demanded for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia ’s islam as an air and naval base . the chagossians were shipped back to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited , leaving to fend for themselves .
islamabad – late last year , pakistan witnessed its second consecutive successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his own party won a general election on an anti-corruption slogan . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing and able to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to tackle pakistan ’s many daunting challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
because of the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency collateralized financing only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks are in trouble – and must affirm that counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . in every case , countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seem destined for an extended , involuntary holiday . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left to the business after financial order has been restored . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns . as the term implies , “ “ emergency funding ” liquidity has to be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately – even when they are insolvent and in resolution .
at the same time that greece fails to adjust its policies completely to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial exit by the eu and the ecb remains very likely to prevent the risk of contagion to the rest of the euro zone and a consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . at the same time , unless greece alters its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial exit by the eu and the ecb still risks avoiding the risk of contagion to the rest of the euro zone and a consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . greece ’s default , after all , may have had the same global systemic effects as the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – frontier with afghanistan , that region comprises many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . these religious parties , a coalition that now head provincial governors in the northwestern frontier province , have been politically marginalized until given a central role here in pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who has been waging pakistan ’s covert interventions in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pressure from washington , have led to a u-turn by pakistan away from pro-jihadi policies . human-rights groups have long urged the imperative of expansion of the writ of pakistan ’s constitution toward the regional tribal belt , in which libya has broad support . throughout its rule , swedish politics grew alongside the number of madrassahs and fighters trained and equipped by the pakistani state and american intelligence agencies .
throughout its entire history , america has always sought to insulate its markets from foreign competition . it tacitly accept that in future , just as it did in the us , the world will contain a bewildering array of economic systems and regimes . for one thing , then , history has once more been repeating itself over the legacy of ideology . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is reverting to an older , more durable model . with america ’s loss of interest the prominent prop of neoliberal policies has effectively been pulled away .
the first few years of his rule have been dominated by his struggle to gain control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting its political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and used it as a cash cow ; many of its social programs were financed directly from the firm ’s budget . its hostility toward outside players at the industry ( he expropriated a few american oil firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) constrained investment and kept production back . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to slash back on maintenance and expansion , resulting in fewer accidents and restricted production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran on its nuclear installations is another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan and , use of hamas and hezbollah against israel and others in the future . moreover , while a pre-emptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and might even create conditions that create problems for the regime over its domestic opponents . iran could also meddle in oil facilities , leading to a spike in prices and delivering another blow to america ’s and global economic recovery . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran on its nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the colossal strategic costs to a nuclear-armed iran .
lord north is remembered for losing the british unions to america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing two unions to the eu , with europe and between england and scotland and scotland to the eu . whereas conservatives want scotland to be in an non-european britain , scottish nationalists want scotland without britain . and , with northern ireland ’s republican party , led by sinn fein , demanding votes to reunify with the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . there is one route to lessen uncertainty and risk : may ’s government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with the eu on the basis of the norway option for eu membership .
the tight-knit members of his clan , his shia political allies , and many members of the alawite minority , all will fight for their survival . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly split along sectarian lines . assad ’s ’s war aims have been reduced to avoid a decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . the islamic state ’s rise has provided support to the us government by claiming that syria ’s risks go beyond terrorist groups ; otherwise , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s ’s ’s ’s final days are not likely to turn out to be pretty .
there is little reason to expect that the super-rich will act less selfishly than any other group . this is a narrative afflicting all segments of society , the middle class no less than the very rich . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society and possess little need for government , this is not because that belief corresponds to objective reality . this is a narrative afflicting all segments of society , the middle class no less than the rich . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion .
here , the only explanation still stands out is a shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive manufacturing forms , like production , toward less-capital-intensive activities like services . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public expenditure on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate the zombie in private capital spending ; and continued higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened regulation of nonbank financial institutions to prevent them from excessive risk-taking . when disorder has multiple causes , then multiple available treatments should occur . but while this may explain why capital spending remained weak and ultra-low interest rates for the last three years , it can not account for why the need for capital spending was insufficient to prevent rates from being congested over three decades . in the end , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown .
once again exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of law and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface an equally arbitrary brutes . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western-backed partner — chairing the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . across russia ’s near abroad , some form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . the danger for the world stems from putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s lawlessness . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine in front of his last year ’s presidential election and the on again off criminal charges has led against the opposition leader , yuliya tymoshenko .
throughout the region , policymakers that writer octavio paz once referred to as the “ philanthropic ogres ” ” created customers , eu citizens , people who expect the eu to become demand . as a result , democratic latin american countries limps sideways because it can not run ahead . within latin america , many people living with a outstretched hand . there are far too many entry barriers for the poor , innovative , and those with no access to credit . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people should get just enough to survive rather than participate in society .
two examples of this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index , and its new , inclusive growth and development index ( wef ) . instead , indexes comprise the variables – what they refer to as the “ policy space ” – that supposedly create either competitiveness or even inclusive growth . competitiveness , for example , has to do with its ability to increase market share , without sacrificing margin , or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . but this is not to say that such indexes are in fact measuring . inclusiveness has to do with income disparities and growth across different regions and social groups .
whether one considered the dutch welfare state to be humane and generous or bloated , or foolhardy , his largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . thus , people rarely returned to work after they had lost , or were doing so in an underground economy , with its unreported cash payments . back then , from the 1960s and 1970s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented a “ dutch disease . ” numerous generous subsidies , grants and transfer payments – targeted at everyone from the truly needy to artists unable to sell their jobs – that after-tax wages often delivered barely exceed the rewards . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch responded to their past excesses with a series of policies designed to promote a return to work in the formal labor market .
but significant segments of the global financial and economic elite appear to think that unless america falls into a recession in the coming months , trump will be reelected . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have very little in common . but , in their perceived acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large segments of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s . moreover , their prognosis is not simply rooted in fear of being wrong again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome , and some may even have hoped for it . at this point , comparisons with the 1930s inevitably come into view .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , provide youth opportunities whatever their backgrounds , to ascend the income ladder . they need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that gains are shared much more equitably and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have struggled to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 . beyond making this happen , market mechanisms alone do not suffice to achieve all of this .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets in order to direct their fire by egyptians just ahead of them . egyptian blockades blocked central highway across sinai with an enriched box , carrying powerful artillery , and more than 100 tanks , fronted three parallel trend-manned trend-manned trent manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on hand-dunes and high ground at every stop . sharon had its forces climbing over the sand dunes to enter the trench lines at their summit and attacking their own length – a simple maneuver that egyptians could beat had not been shunted off by an artillery spats and israeli tanks firing straight time at them . still , the egyptian artillery had gotten superior , and it was supposed to have at least silenced the tanks firing on the pretrench front . but , with helicopters having dropped , paratroopers , abruptly jumped egyptian gun crews , who never experienced a chance in a hand-to-hand battle .
over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s urban population has completed such a course , partly owing to requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care personnel , have first-aid certification . requiring individuals in particular occupations – including higher-teacher training , nurses , and policemen – to acquire mental-health first-aid certifications would significantly enhance participation , thereby strengthening support for those who are struggling with mental-health problems . such certifications are even more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . the pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of scarce communities . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses .
in response to this bid ( and bad publicity ) , merck , abbott ’s laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies have announced their willingness to procure african markets at a “ zero profits ” rate – ie , at around $ 500 per patient per year for aids drugs that they produce . but how can the advantages of a globally patent system that provides an incentive for innovation , and new discoveries combine with the assurance that the poor gain access to the medical care they desperately need ? in fact , some quality manufacturers of generic drugs , such as the cipla of india , have offered to provide such medicines at prices near the cost of manufacturing . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even as the drugs that exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights on the grounds that patent protection creates a barrier to vital medicines that reaches the world ’s poor . the costs of producing these drugs , however , fall far below the market price – perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some of the drug combinations used to treat aids .
this reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience alone . having never held an elected office , macron created a new governing party , centered on himself , with backing from both center-left and center-right voters . he appears set to reassert french politics in this process as well . but what if populist movements ’ continuing electoral success helps to drive forward a wider political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ? next year , ’s european parliament elections are likely to reveal more of the potential for such a political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine on the world ’s “ person of the year ” featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola outbreak in her home liberia that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola arm ’s - length . in the nineteenth century , as one in every hundred pregnancies in europe put an end to the death of a mother . one year ago , she died from the complications of childbirth , a killer that lasts nearly twice as many lives as the entire ebola outbreak . after all , childbirth has been hazardous for females and newborns throughout human history . for girls and newborns across human history , childbirth has been hazardous .
in yemen , the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor is a moderate political issue for syria ’s arab neighbors . an estimated two million syrians are living in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan . most live outside refugee camps , and many work – for the most part illegally . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % , and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens work .
the problem with obama in america is rooted in the conflicting character of his administration . the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were undeniably complex . but the language employed by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of freedom , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason americans elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism had once again led to the deaths and displacement of the million people . now with american politicians talk about “ freedom ” , ” ” ” ” people see bombing campaigns , chambers of torture , and the persistent threat of lethal drones .
this was followed by russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct a trilateral military exercise named indira 2005 , ” on a similar scale before the end of this year . indeed , this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . historically , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises can not possibly be explained away as simple , one-off ” affairs with little resonance . but that ’s because bush did not begin to address an issue looming ever larger in the region : the changing face of security in asia , in view of china ’s rising economic and military might . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news , by design .
emerging-market governments need to address critical issues stemming from weak coordination within , as well as from , national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and the responsibility they need to address health and health-care outcomes . anticipatory urban planning , based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registries , and private information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , is needed . proven systems and reforms should be pooled among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and think should be adapted to local conditions . this includes new , affordable , publicly listed mobile telephony to community-health workers .
shanghai – tight media control over riots in tibet has followed what , to some , looks like far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . much to the consternation of western media , chinese people worldwide have lashed out against its allegedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot . is this a change in china ’s media strategy , or just a brief turn of tactics ? that question stands out in light of chinese public opinion in the latter phases of the tibet crisis . throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudice they perceived in western media reporting .
any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas in order to free up insulin , which had transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue and also caused the pistol to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrate carbohydrate ( glucose polymers of glucose ) that was also shipped off to the liver through the glycolytic pathway , cracking down on energy . as a result , our forebears ' s stayed healthy . so , too , were their fellows left healthy . and nature did its part by supplying every at the same time naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as its energy sources , rather than both .
sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to about 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already championed the anti-hiv/aids battle . in reality , the crisis has merely made the problem more visible . around africa , diseases are estimated to have reduced average national gdp growth rates by 2-4 percentage points annually . there are now 2.4 million new infections , and an estimated 34 million people living with hiv/aids who require treatment to stay alive .
even america has stated that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . leaving the eu a single market would generate grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial industry . remaining in the single market , however , comes at a cost , one that british voters might not endorse . the uk would have to accept the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and executing decisions that it will assume no part of shaping the eu . as long as this democratic deficit remains unacceptable to the uk , it will be left standing on its own , out of the economic cold .
as the curtain drops , two developments will profoundly affect the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . the first is managing the afghan transition transition , which will depend on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the second is elections , also to be held in 2014 , of a new afghan president , a process that needs the un and its nato allies to assert plausibly , as they pass the country over to legitimate government . for afghanistan , which has been ravaged by war without respite since the 1978 “ saur revolution ” , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as an exit from the curtain , it will enter another era of political and strategic uncertainty , after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic society knowingly walk into a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare , alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are broad open . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere around the world . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on the post-brexit relationship will inflict enormous damage on their countries .
after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or via military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic upgrading and diplomatic engagement by external powers . in fact , even if the us did not try to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longstanding , already much-reduced , backing from the castro administration . the normalization of relations with the us holds the key to achieving liberalization in cuba . indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening may be accurate only in the short term . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or via military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by external powers .
indeed , though countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis erupted , hard economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while exuding external competitiveness . weidmann is well known that when central banks , mainly the european central bank , buy sovereign bonds . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , manage genuine currency wars in the process yields slim . moreover , over the last few years , much political activity in ways that imply fresh economic and political divisions has usually been focused directly or indirectly on exchange rates . although weidmann is not entirely comfortable with protectionism since the global financial crisis erupted , tough economic and labor-market conditions in key eu countries can force politicians to protect domestic markets while striving for external competitiveness .
moreover , although studies suggest that short-termism , directly measurable economic benefits on the domestic level , is relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants might be important to particular economic sectors . today , america is the world of ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now , it is still likely to become third ( after only china and india combined ) . a 1 % increase in university graduates leads to a 6 % jump in patents per capita . not only is an immigration relevant to economic hard work ; but , given that almost all advanced countries are aging and face the costs of providing jobs to the older generation , it could help to lessen the disequilibrium of the policy problem . already , the us census bureau projects that america ’s population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades .
a new approach is needed and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework . calling for enhanced social welfare aligns with india ’s third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to fund safety-net programs like public pensions and health care . likewise , emphasizing markets ’ ostensibly decisive role in upgrading china ’s manufacturing structure , and eliminating excess capacity , is compatible with a third plenum aimed at achieving a market-based shift toward a more advanced consumer society . but what emerges from all this is yet another example of timeworn “ soup ” attitude toward chinese economic policymaking – myriad drafts , initiatives , and , bases that are loosely tied , at best , and that are often buffeted by internal inconsistencies . in fact , just two of the six overriding economic tasks identified by a workconference fit neatly with a third plenum on a strategic agenda .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb these days is that the american economy is falling headlong into a serious slump , bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to this one . even with sticky relied and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices in world markets , all of which are important factors behind today ’s elevated levels of inflation . as europe ’s growth slows , so , too , will inflationary pressures . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy , including european – is about to escape its aftermath . this is why trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do the job for him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on changing that ) , while poland ’s ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia might become a menace to the continent again . eu countries that he could not bully militarily because of nato have been wooed with discounts or punished with price hikes . as a result , while hungary has pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland has been paying $ 526 – its highest cost in the eu . every major player in russia ’s energy-centric economy has rapidly fallen into line politically , enabling putin to use poland – like a geopolitical cudgel – to export russia as a geopolitical cudgel . the poles have already paid a steep price , but they were right to do so .
the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a recently negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . but , while accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeals , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare – so rare a way to tackle it directly . instead , the world has created baroque , a bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific discovery , plant breeding , and establish intellectual property ( ip ) rights . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its own parties , as well as the secretariat , an organization of 15 research institutes that comprise the consultative assembly of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media nowadays publicly put criticism of his economic and political agenda . he has also sapped the resources channeled to particular religious institutions , helped those in his circle establish private banks by easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s largest economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curbed his illegal efforts before , and has now placed a stop to mashai ’s candidacy completely . yet , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has deepened , support for the president has waned considerably , with even state-directed media denouncing ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second - and last-minute fast approaching , an unpopular president seems unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s governing establishment .
as the economist marco fortis points out , italian family wealth still exists , if not for long , second to none in europe . to enhance the public ’s credibility , monti ’s administration substantially raised taxes , particularly on real estate , while preserving italy ’s already record-high income-tax rate . the tax plan stressed that italy , like japan , is a country of both public debt and private wealth . under monti ’s leadership , reform came at a time , and markets calmed . beyond enhancing international credibility , two major changes to italy ’s political landscape have shaped italy ’s election campaign .
prosecutions usually boosts leakers ’ stature , making pointless as a deterrent . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is all but possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us . one of the toughest lessons for senior administrations to learn , ­ – including for me , when i was an australian attorney general and foreign minister , respectively – is the problem of futility in every but one-tiny minority of cases , of trying to prosecute and punish those responsible for the leaks . prosecutions usually boosts leakers ’ stature , making reakers ’ useless faces , with rage or humiliation , those in power . it fail to undo their original damage and typically compounds it with further publicity .
moreover , though may was in the “ remain ” camp during the brexit campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held accountable for whatever setbacks in the brexit negotiations . she wants to get out before voters realize that the leave campaign has sold them a bogus bill of goods , including a promise that they could keep all of the benefits from eu membership – especially full access to the european single market without having to allow the free movement of labour . clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that satisfies the two groups . this helps to explain may ’s desperation to push brexit through the eu as fast as possible . she also knows that she can not succeed politically politically , either , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” ” while hardly noticing “ wins .
among other things , such surveys should aim to create a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposures to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . at the same time , more studies are required to inform health policy and planning adequately . to complement this effort , we must also invest in improving our understanding of how these risks factors are – most often studied in connectivity , early childhood , and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . in addition , the data-collection efforts should encompass a focus on mental health . according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of early death and disability from adults between 50 and over ; for young people , that figure drops to 26 % .
but talk of regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter into politics . only a woman with the backing of prominent constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , with musharraf presenting himself as a candidate with whom the military might back . thus , in a protracted conversation with a bbc bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan 's army is the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . “ there is despondency in pakistan and the eu going to be the military , ” he said . pakistan these days is a troubled country , politically as badly as it is economically .
with politicians effectively rewarded for their myopic view of thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable long-term growth in a kind that , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to approach this problem in a democratic context . first , governments might be bound to ally themselves more strongly with their predecessors ’ policy decisions . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been debated and enacted will have time actually taken effect , not any risk that it will simply cancel each other out . the european union provides one example of how longstanding binding commitments can work .
at an wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently on the agenda of every politician running for election , at all levels of government . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public-spending to education . for the sdgs to be operational , education has to receive more billing , nationally , and on average . furthermore , the ongoing decline in aid to education toward education has to be reversed , and new financial resources – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – must be mobilized . this begins with the political will and setting priorities accordingly .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar ’s peg ties its hold because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to tough reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and , in doing so , triggering a domestic credit squeeze early in the international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks to insolvency , owing to a liquidity problem . as a result , ukraine ’s ’s money supply , m3 , exploded less than 52 percentage points in the last year alone , pointing to inflation hits 30 % soon . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % annually , 10 percentage points less than inflation , which implies that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . in fact , rationing has always been worse than the market , and the authorities are unable to borrow too much .
initial concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime have been & a struggle that scuttled some diplomatic solutions once before because neither conservatives nor reformers were fully prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , then confronting a united front with the support of arab states , backed by turkey , israel , and , in a sense , israel . iran would then find it harder to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its standing would become more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority . developments in syria , iran , ’s latest remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to have a role to play . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure is close at hand .
as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe has come and gone . insofar as a term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar and will most likely remain so for the foreseeable future . its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legitimate frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economies in contravention of the united states more dominant even than rome did , but the problem is not europe ’s ones , it is our obsolete understanding of power . the eu ’s power-sharing approach , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict by multi-party committees may be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is increasingly recognized for a range of issues in a networked and interdependent world . the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the analogous argument that european peoples , quits and collectively , are the only nations other than america that can “ exert global influence across the full spectrum ” from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ power .
tehran – iranians will head to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is , in fact , not at all clear . iran ’s then supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has stated repeatedly in public settings that i will not declare his preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said “ there is some cheeper rumors ” that i support a special presidential candidate . but i have one vote , and i would not establish some candidate , because the people themselves should pick their candidates on the basis of their self-perception .
the republican party has only a very small majority in the senate , where a filibuster rule requires three-fifths majorities to pass majority legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block the house republicans ’ tax agenda . likewise , the move to a territorial tax system will raise taxable profits , particularly in the short term , because us corporations repatriate some of the existing overseas money stock . but this will be offset by reductions in personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower marginal tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes as individuals increase earnings and compensation shifts from the fringe benefits to the taxable cash . there is an important form of legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surpluses in the future . even though the net tax changes might widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean more economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will generate rising tax incomes and lower long-term deficits .
combining them has put its asylum system near collapse ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear can receive fair hearings in which their rights are protected . at the same time , the eu must revitalize its operation sophia initiative to tackle refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis before implementing such a scheme . second , europe needs to manage economic migrants and asylum-seekers in isolation . addressing genuine economic and social needs within the eu requires effectively blue – or green-card policies toward economic migrants with overall immigration objectives .
in both cases , the effort to defend a fixed exchange-rate regime in the face of capital-flow reversals was an important factor , as was true in turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . emerging-market bulls have pointed out that most major middle-income countries have substantially reduced their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal room that they lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crisis of 1997 led to large public-debt deficits . to what extent are ’s conditions comparable today to those that triggered the asian crisis of 1997 , or to other fast-capital-flow reversals of the last few decades , ? will the fed ’s phased reduction of qe bring more emerging-market disorder this year ?
both aspirations can be realized if societies enable older people to work more years , and to allow anyone to work fewer hours . such a reform could be implemented over a few decades without slowing economic growth or declining prosperity . already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , potentially working 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , younger people long for greater education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . one possibility is a drift toward an average workweek of 25 hours , and an average workweek that extends up to age 70 and to even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to soar .
it is that commitment , by which the new government is binding at the moment , that is what it is today . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because the yes vote in the referendum now looks so implausible it is also unlikely to try . british public opinion nowadays is so hostile , to the eu more generally , and to europe in particular , that a referendum might not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . denmark ’s government has done just that , and seems to be dragging the danish public around the idea of joining the eu . the “ bouncing ” of britain in the eu is simply impossible ; if anything , they will do next .
middle of the range of scenarios under consideration by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial levels in 2100 . while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb long-term oil imports , such measures require major changes in transportation infrastructure that will require decades to come to a complete end . a recent report by the bipartisan national energy policy commission outlines a new coalition at the united nations . while the bush administration remains skeptical about science beyond such projections , some states and local governments are enacting measures to cut carbon emissions . more importantly , companies like general electric are committing themselves to green goals that go well beyond government regulation .
people in these fields are ultimately bought and sold by corporate managers just as much as the people in tech fields . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communications skills that are similarly critical to successful careers . achieving this kind of learning probably implies pursuing what one naturally finds exciting and stakeholders , whether it also happens to be finance or physiology . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communications skills , which is also critical to successful careers . an important point for having students bear in mind is that they ought to motivate to attain deep understandings rather than rote memorization , of the subjects that they study to fulfill the role of authentic expert , of whatever field they ultimately decide to pursue .
but that day also appears to be spreading the message on behalf of elizabeth ii and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply a fact of life . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies , some $ 56 million are terminated . abortion occurs within every country and within every socioeconomic class , according to the un . but abortion is most common in developing countries , where access to family-planning services is often unlimited . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties ; 59 % are already mothers ; and almost two-thirds identify to be organized religion .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , for they understand that doing so merely leads to higher interest rates and larger unemployment . this argument is hardly irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on pay bargaining . but one should not expect too much from the ecb ’s tough stance . the ecb should not delude itself by thinking that a small rise in interest rates will suffice . if and when wage pressures hit , the ecb , remaining true to its word , may be forced to raise interest rates far beyond what it expects .
megaupload permitted its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , television shows , and music and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) was on display at its mansion near auckland , where it was keeping its rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s attorney claims that megaupload was merely providing storage to its subscribers files , and did not have control beyond what they were storing . as a result , last month , the united states treated legislation that aimed to stop internet piracy alone . bills were written at the urging of hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries that asserted that violations of online copyright cost america 100,000 jobs . but megaupload offered the monetary prize to users who had toned down files that proved to be popular with other users .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins within a few days , audiences will be presented with a minutely choreographed swathed in nationalist kitsch . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , hitler ’s favorite architect and designer the 1936 berlin olympics , to design the master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has by itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . nevertheless , both aesthetically and politically , parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler coined the last may to transform public spaces and the designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , project the master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has been alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . it is , of course , images reminiscent of putin ’s quixotic goose-stepping storm trover and designer the 1936 berlin olympics : after all , formal chinese nationalism proclaims the country with a “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of harmonious development .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the subject subject less efficient , reducing its legitimacy and credibility . at the same time , economists can no longer see much public issues to question the right questions , or seek to reply to them with integrity . in order to recover its credibility , economics must become more open to criticism of assumptions , methodologies , and results . the inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can never be ignored indefinitely .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . and that imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . the united states is reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . by contrast , china is a dynamic and outward-looking , providing good rationale for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is a critical time for both germany and europe to provide vision , greater stability and full global leadership .
other than the presence of even a handful of people ’s liberation army troops , one would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime , or its very founder , mao zedong . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of the multinational design team of herzog & de meuron ( xmeuron ) , with suggestions at the visual artist of ai weiwei . many of the artists involved in producing the spectacle , including the chief fireworks specialized roman cai guo qiang , france shen wei , and the composer tan dun , earned their fame primarily to the west . in keeping with china ’s recent effort to project its “ soft ” counterpart , the opening ceremony produced the idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its greatest . equally significant was china ’s projection as nascent leader of the new international cultural order .
my own research , which featured thousands of conversations with women from india to burkina faso , centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? one of the most efficient ways to empower women anywhere , but particularly in the developing world , is through the promotion of financial autonomy . in many areas , that means nurturing the provision of “ informal savings groups , ” ” ” ” ” like-minded women paying dues to construct a shared pool of sources . this money can then be attracted to fund any number of items , like small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs . the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they already do on their own .
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions made by any putative global administration , but the fact that the days of the g8 now seem numbered . politically or economically , as well as in china and india nowadays , it is more important than the few european g8 members . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading globally , particularly across the atlantic . thus , by and large , the summit ’s outcome was a far cry from that of the whole world . president putin ’s behavior at the summit made a clear show of what he thinks about europeans ; not too much .
indeed , in most areas , the epas will hurt intra-european trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . when the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , tentative research indicates that the trade gains brought by the epas , as it was negotiated , are likely to be concentrated around a handful of agricultural products – and excluding the least-developed countries . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be set to compensate some of the short-term losses . for its part , african leaders are right to be concerned , and they should be concerned . some will argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losses are likely to materialize instantly , and the potential advantages brought by increased eu access will take longer to emerge .
he demonstrated how history can be put forward and measured in totally different ways : from an american or japanese perspective , even though no one makes up facts or provides falsifying sources . for americans , there was a heroic or triumphant account in which atomic bombs represent a final blow against the aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . for the americans , there was `` a heroic , triumphant account in which atomic bombs represent the ultimate blow against the aggressive , fanatic and savage enemy . '' for the americans , there was `` a heroic , triumphant account in which atomic bombs represent the ultimate blow against the aggressive , fanatic and savage enemy . the choice and the combination of data is enough to make this happen .
it would push actual issues down the road , rather than finalizing the brexit debate . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team that led the previous eu negotiations . any new deal will be may ’s old deal off bells and whistles . it would have to be paved the way at the october 17-member meeting of the european council , where european leaders remain increasingly frustrated with the entire process . already , that show has years to go .
and , as if our inability to ensure stability in our own neighborhood had not been enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within europe alone . likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime from using war crimes against its own people has left the void created by putin and iran . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , in particular , have busily constructing increasingly illiberal intra-eu states . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have brought homegrown political leaders who ruffy , but not surprisingly , resemble putin and erdoğan . all too often , european leaders shout from the sidelines when they should come on the field , which they seek to defend shared european interests .
to deliver opportunities and security for all , everywhere in an era of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent , evolving needs . at the same time , a common framework must be created , so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented in diverse contexts . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” ” ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would preserve their value as they moved with those who gained them . as the nature of work shifts , so must the nature of benefit systems .
moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will react to crisis in very different ways to mexico . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers have been caught in wall street ’s awe ; brazil has not this hang on . on and off the surface , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation is down to insignificant levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are alarmed by their own goodness , rather than with the prosperity of foreign investors . if and when the two pieces fall , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can close water and soils . but while the techniques already exist , success will require increasing the use of zero-carbon no-till farming , embrace permaculture principles , better managing wetlands , and using rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . the power of markets to drive the radical change on power and land use is excellent ; but , as 2017 storms should remind us , meeting the paris climate emergency requires vigorous and urgent action . transforming the way people acquire and consume energy while exploiting land , will require robust incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . but do not despair : there is still time to save our climate .
several opposition candidates , including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and debeto o’brien rourke , disagree completely on the details of such regimes , or have simply failed to spelled them out out . but after former president barack obama attempted to mend the american health-care disaster with halfway provision , arguably the most politically feasible at the time – those vying for the democratic nomination obviously have more ambitious plans in place . many of the democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-sponsored health care . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare , to be funded with a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million . but their proposals , one-payer systems ( “ medicare for all ” ) , national health services , or something else – do not all mean the same thing .
but there is another explanation , one completely consistent with rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians have lost national credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises that they will make . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the challenge of asymmetric information . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe that leaders who do not seem very different from the previous crop of politicians who have oversold them the gains from globalization and pass their grievances ? voters are more likely to appeal to candidates who embrace anti-establishment credentials , and can safe to depart from prevailing policies .
today , leaders in rwanda , widely viewed as an african success story , have enhanced stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . once again , president paul kagame ’s landslide reelection last year alone had more to do with power than with democracy . although kagame remains popular , its governing government was criticized for stifling free speech and universal human rights in its run-up to the vote . politically , rwanda is a strong , disciplined , and organized . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable when the tradeoff continues through economic and institutional management .
from top perspective , it arguably has become more important for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems that enable global flows than dealing with strictly economic issues . continued economic advances across the developing world , and recovery in the advanced countries , require preventing local and regional conflict from delivering large , systemic shocks . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest to do just that : no one benefits from expanding systemic risk . it is this threshold that seems under threat to come . cross-continental flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on the threshold of safety , stability , and predictability .
washington , dc – attendees at the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that big banks were never properly scrutinized for front mortgages , aggregation , and securitization behavior that has been central to the financial crisis – plus a loss of over eight million jobs . but prominent banks have also been accused of illicit behavior , by inciting people to borrow , for example , deceiving them at the very interest rate that they actually pay for themselves , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . if these charges are any truth , the bank executives involved may fear that , in case , civilian lawsuits would uncover evidence that might be employed in criminal prosecution . but , thanks to the effort by new york times ’ attorney general , eric schneiderman , and others , serious debate has started at the united nations about the out-issue mortgage settlements between state attorney general rod generals and prominent financial-sector firms . talks between state officials , the obama administration , and us banks now focus on previously reported abuses at the sale of mortgages , foreclose to homes , and evicting their residents .
they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . still others have cholera , and when they die by a roadside there is no one to bury them . “ over the rivers and down the highways and down the countless jungle way ” travel there , eastern pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage somalia : the endless , unorganized flow of refugees with a few tin kettles , the cardboard boxes , and the disabling clothes piled onto their head , carries their sick kids , and their old ways . they pad together bezos , with mud sucking at their heels in sufferers ’s part . too many are sick and sores covered by the .
now the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming us presidential election . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that has driven european integration and kept it at the center of the postwar european multilateral system . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order . with the uk giving world free trade after the 1830s he was now determined to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are pulling domestic sovereignty ahead of global public goods . as a result , charges of currency manipulation and the threat of protectionist measures have intensified .
new york – with a bright-eyed eighth grader in my hometown of sri lanka , i could not have dreamed for my first-ever gender education class . in our early teens , my classmates and i were just as curious as we were clueless about sexuality and sexuality . yet , rather than obtaining reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , attachments , and sexuality were simply given a book , we were told to read a specific chapter , leaving to figure things out out right about our own . millions of young people worldwide are having similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook , with its own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fare , has already given a wake-up call for us firms and policymakers around the world . “ if a revolution can happen , allow us rather to undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , an impoverished , autarkic country that nixon visited is history . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from mines in africa to apple stores in the united states . it is the world that is the largest exporter in volume , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy . in fact , global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . as the us reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it also is an opportune time to reflect on how china continues brief in overcoming its systemic impediments to its long-term success .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has rocked confidence , but this is merely downward shove to an economy that was already slowing as it makes the shift away from exports – and investment-led growth toward more sustainable domestic consumption-driven growth . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , owing to an intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more highly centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , longer-term growth could slip quite dramatically . unfortunately , the choices trump makes in evading a shift toward consumer-led growth and continuing support for exports and real-estate investment are not highly attractive , either . china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither a single market nor a political aversion to enable it to sustain its prior pace of export expansion . a notable chinese slowdown may already be unfolding .
the second arab human-rights report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s education deficiencies and its scarcity of democracy . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if the international community ’s young men and women acquire the skills needed to perform the role of jobs in today ’s globalized and competitive globalized world . the arab world faces major challenges that can be met only by building more flexible , democratic political systems . as a result , democracy requires that the globally informed citizenry be able to question its government . alas , instead of progress , what we are seeing is a cycle of under-learning opportunity that is leading to a lack of economic opportunity .
with the kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the united nations security council has remained typically silent , while europeans condemned everything and everyone involved . but the seeds for this larger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . out of any coherent policy , the conditions have been ripe for a new crisis . a us president has threatened to crush turkey ’s economy if it is doing what he has allowed him to do . as foreign-policy disasters go , that is one per on the record books .
and such an approach would cement the very notion that a central bank ’s policies are “ the sole game in town , ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices that they control . it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . but a <UNK> ter-money program – a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also be a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of caution about citizen and investor perception , trust , and robust governance structures . a less risky , time-tested route to stimulating demand would yield significant increases in public-infrastructure investment financed by sovereign debt . from a macro perspective , investment in infrastructure is “ twofer ” – it reinforces longer-run productivity and competitiveness , unused capacity , boosts demand , output and employment with substantial multiplier effects .
in a country where rail passengers can even expect a clean toilet , let alone on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi has discussed introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . as a result , railways run out of cash before running out of schemes . and if all of this was n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership seems unable to recognize the challenges the railways current have failed . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect to be a clean toilet , let alone on-full arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken out about introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion annually by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up trains .
indeed , there is a profound divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and the right-leaning “ red ” states of the us . and there are many ways that state governments could thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . at the same time , cities , for their part , have often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . several organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity including michael bloomberg ’s government innovation program , fuse corps , outcomes for america , social finance , private-equity partners , and usafacts . under federalism , whether cooperative or uncooperative ” ” remains supposed to be the right goals .
we need to look beyond these figures to identify who truly is accountable fomenting a policed climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered into mainstream public discourse . let ’s start , then , with “ patient zero ” starting in this political agitation : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the united kingdom and america , not to mention his native australia – in favor of profit and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks may have as well patented the prescription for the deceitful , dog-whistle policies that have fueled trump ’s ascension , and the brexit vote . only by identifying the sources of a odious virus now interviewing our democracies can we take practical steps to quarantine them .