another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain the central pillar of world energy for decades to come , whether it ultimately can export more power than instability is a key question . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish that region ’s importance . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , a complexity that defies analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from a lack of peace with israel ?
and pakistan then becomes even more resolute in trying to keep ahead of india . china shares russia ’s worries about america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , as well as its increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current 19,000 nuclear-weapons stockpile , it is proving impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to reduce its own ( far smaller ) arsenals until the large two make additional drastic cuts to theirs . in fact , this deterrence logic produces a snowball effect . with china accepting that course , india – outside the npt but with its 100 nuclear weapons – feels the need to add to its own arsenal .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : until the late nineteenth century , the median standards of living in britain and other countries that had spread via the industrial revolution were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years , over any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . how , exactly , did those accomplishments eventually occur ? to take its place , what were the small differences that turned out to matter so much ? early industrial-era economic accomplishments took place , despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a tripling of the population , placing extraordinary malthusian constraint on the economically underlying natural-resource base , and , despite the mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for nearly a century of a intensive war against france , a power with more than three times britain ’s population .
may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open-minded ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . her government has formed the department of international commerce for the first time , which will be responsible for the drawing of trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission had previously handled such arrangements ) . another new home , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed , not the existential implosion envisioned by london-centric british newspapers . may is in no hurry to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though facing her re-election next year , the increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says she is ) .
whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an disgrace . venezuela has attempted to fund itself with the help of the china development bank ( cdb ) , which imposes no kind of conditionality that the imf bashers dislike . the chinese did not require venezuela to do anything to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . instead , the cdb lends its secret terms to the cdb and corrupt uses , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas such as telecoms ( huawei ) , gubergs ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . in doing so , they merely demand more oil as collateral ;
it featured obama ’s two clips saying , “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law , ” and , “ what i did reach under president dick lugar . ” the context did not explain it , but what obama said in fully was this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law guaranteeing and destroying some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” ” and “ whomever was reached out to senator dick lugar , a republican , helping to lock up loose nuclear weapons . ” with the defeat of lugar , along with the simultaneous exit of last republican moderates like senator clevelia snous of maine , who was ready to deploy national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russian arms-control treaties should the us be negotiated . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty ( ctbt ) , which would replace a fragile international moratorium , can not enter into force without american senate ratification . one tv advertises indicated that all about the tea party-driven cynicism .
perhaps it will be imprisoned for assisting the terrorists , but his treachery generates little resentment . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , have always feared a betrayal . they have called their criminal izmena rodine – a betrayal of the motherland – and marry this high moral language against lesser transgressions , like leaving the country illegally . insecure states are quicker to sense deeds that they are forms of betrayal . insecure states tend to forget about treason .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that has similarly been forcibly enforced by humans , and even used to torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant medication and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely , if ever , indicates clear clinical evidence of brain damage , and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . while ect ’s opponents believe that it cause brain damage , this is difficult to show . and , whereas few people now make ect involuntarily , and in all cases of consent , a great and growing number get antipsychotic drug under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , patients with alzheimer ’s , and a host of others whose lives are shortened to treatments with no effort to seek their informed consent .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore have recently failed to secure an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance of completing what would become the world ’s largest mega-regional free-trade deal . but , owing to serious concerns that the tpp will fail to weigh on important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , norway , and ten other pacific rim countries , with a combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout matches their ambitions ; the talks go far beyond traditional trade issues , which account for only five of the 47th proposed chapters , and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues to affect many millions of people – rather than always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complex question .
and open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ rack ” materials , coupled with quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content developments and improvements . the exciting thing about open education nowadays is that unfettered access is only the beginning . open education promises to transform the current textbook manufacturing pipeline at a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem that acts in a persistent state of creation , usage , and better . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interaction among students and teachers alike worldwide . in late last year at cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to achieve a consensus on open education ’s ideals and approaches , and that we committed to them in the cape town open learning declaration , which was officially released on january 22 .
massive violence against the civilian population is “ pacification , ” ” ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ transfer of populations . ” what , in his view , are boundaries for american engagement ? nearly 70 years ago , while george orwell investigated the tendencies toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and write are largely indefensible defense of indefensible . ” in other words , the hazy language needed to obscure unsavory realities . under what conditions would the u.s. use its capabilities ?
brussels – to many in the west , china appears to have gone from a country that has “ kept its cool head and maintains a low profile , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . but a point in reciting this litany is no so much that it may be worth emphasizing china ’s wayward behavior as it is demonstrating a dilemma in which the country is finding itself : as long as it behaves like a “ normal ” ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions of people it still need to withdraw from the brink of poverty . the chinese leadership seems aware of this dilemma , and has not , in fact , been eager to roll back fierce competition with the west or its neighbors . throwing an australian mining executive behind a record of ten years , directing google , maintaining the european union at the gulf for an important dialogue , and letting a mid-level official wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not an , after all , the best way to persuade partners of your own constructive intentions . nor is it reassuring to recall that in the aftermath of a decade that china , up to now , has been stubbornly jettisoning off sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillenting western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than it is today . yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it – not just normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . fortunately , the experiences of the 1980s suggests a way forward . this was accomplished mainly through dialogue . if this continues , europe would forfeit its influence in world affairs , and gradually become meaningless .
these factors help to explain why the digital economy has attracted rise to large firms with diminishing need for labor . but confronting it will require us to re-create antitrust in the digital age . and , once these firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that keep incumbents and potential rivals in challenging their position . this heightened market concentration is widening the gulf between firms owning the robots ( capital ) and the workers they are replacing labor ( labor ) . and , with the late economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen showing , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the world ’s largest income drop ever .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by his political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was the markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to a european fiscal and political union . that , in fact , is no cause for celebration , either . unfortunately , not : progress resulted almost exclusively from the pressure of much-maligned financial markets . just like former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by his political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was the markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to a european fiscal and political union . unfortunately , that is not : progress resulted almost exclusively from the pressure of much-maligned financial markets .
forecasts for america ’s economic growth have been revised downward significantly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply shifted between sectors and countries . and , if multiple us currencies are all to depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting impact on american manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and thus hurting the very word for exporters . indeed , forecasts for america ’s economic growth have not gone away ; they have simply shifted between sectors and countries . and if multiple currencies against the american dollar depreciate , the resulting impact on american manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and thus hurting word exporters .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken the transatlantic alliance , which had long appeared unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato an obsolete , and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu is about to collapse soon , he predicted , with the succession of the subsequent united kingdom out of the eu . with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . the united states , his position suggests , would be more than fine .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and industries to become a global competitor in a range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for electricity and hydrocarbon industry . all of these industries will reap the benefits of enormous demand growth in large markets such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . furthermore , the social and political environment must be tailored to a high-tech labor force , provide an attractive quality of life , ensure civil liberties , and promote entrepreneurship and creativity . those that have survived only barely , with considerably reduced output going mainly to the ex-soviet market .
yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( meaning that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax the fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right type of public investment would probably spur more private-sector investment . the returns to public investment are affected by the presence or absence of complementary reforms diverting money from the country to the eu . of course , neither the situation nor the size of the euro is cut nor dried . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures being misclassified as an investment .
a central issue in these tv programs is not that the core roles women are playing . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three consecutive general elections , is respected or resented for her austerity policies , not for her gender . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is respected or resented for her austerity policies , not her gender . character , rather than gender , drives a narrative . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is being attacked for mismanaging the economy and for american banking interests in forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman .
the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , a group of fed governors and presidents from the regional federal reserve banks , has agreed that the federal funds rate will stay at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , and may be expected to remain there or to decline further . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if the predicted annual inflation rate rises from its current level to well above 2 % , to well above 2.5 % . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and has fallen only slowly , the fed might not be prepared to raise the federal funds rate to zero until 2015 . bernanke has stressed that the two policies are on separate tracks , and will respond to different economy-wide performance indicators . but there are caveats to make this forward guidance ambiguous – and thus uninformative .
throughout the past 20 years , social inequality has been growing threefold . russia , prokhorov , concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopolization and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many oil-exporting countries . according to prokhorov , for example , productivity in russia amounts to just 6-10 % of that in the united states , which is the result of the economy ’s struggles , even as the price of oil , its main export , is peaking . two million educated professionals in russia recently emigrated . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – a key problem holding back russia ’s own economy .
what matters is that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) has let iran know that any action to put itself in a position to field a nuclear deal after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by a accord will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , is not precluding the accord . meanwhile , a major us effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s neighbors ’ concerns , several of which will be tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s potentially remote possible breakout in 15 years by pursuing its nuclear programs of its own . iran should be likewise informed that america and its allies would commit a preemptive military strike should it appear attempting to present the world with a fait accompli . the world erred in enabling north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the underlying strength of their currency . for starters , the dollar has been shooting up since the us election only because trump made a vow to enact deep tax cuts and to engage in spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this will spur near-term economic growth , and it will inevitably push interest rates up . short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the underlying strength of their currency . longer-term trends in how the currency is used internationally , particularly as a store of value for either foreign investor or central bank , are far more telling .
like home secretary , she frequently won battles against other ministers , simply by refusing to articulate her views , or even to appear at meetings , until minutes before a final decision must be made . european leaders could readily neutralize might ’s threat of a no-deal brexit , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions that she entails . to do that , they need to understand the method behind may ’s horticulture strategy of indecision and delay . throughout her political career , procrastination as a win-win strategy . but this happy outlook to rests on one critical assumption : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged .
new york – the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . and it ranks 58th for the institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , relative to the oecd average of 90 % . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat . in recent months , north korea has fired a number of intercontinental ballistic missiles and conducted its nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
second , continued imperialism in its near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces the reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet nation-state feed on resources devoted to extending russian influence within the non-russian republics . it is not sustainable for a people of smolensk oblast to live under a constitutional democracy , while citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the sacrifices of wanton shelling and destruction . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of medical slavery in the u.s. , shows that as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , full of citizenship rights can not be denied to colonial subjects of members or certain groups . thus , if russia continues along an imperialist legs , its democracy would be in jeopardy .
from a japanese perspective , an account of victimization has emerged , '' in which `` atomic bombs have become a symbol of a specific type of suffering -- rather like the holocaust for the jews . '' all choose the tipping point that fits it best . at the hiroshima museum itself , a victim role has been exploited in ways similarly distort memory . neither japan 's government accountability of initiating and continuing the war , nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war , or the subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule , are fully admitted . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with aircraft pilots holding an end to wwii , or a passive population subjected to the hell of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting out the `` innocents '' and its `` good guys . ''
the intended recipients of such actions should be defined as rights-holders . instead of being helped because they have nonsatisfied needs , they are granted remedies , because their rights are violated . this removes the stigma of charity and makes it empowering for the victims . the framework also should include the non-discrimination requirement , ensure that we target our attention to the most vulnerable groups – not only the highly well-connected , the regime ’s literate , and regime favorites , and not only groups for which a quick victory can secure them . accountability mechanisms should be instituted , enabling victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action .
the most important problem facing the us is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is the chinese who are stealing us technology and using it to help chinese companies compete with those same us firms in china and around the world . the chinese are doing this in two ways , including the us . first , american firms that want to do business with china are mandated to have a chinese partner and share their technology with that firm . that compulsory sharing of technology is explicitly forbidden by the world trade organization ’s rules .
yet the battle within islam is not a satisfactory or sufficient explanation for the state of the anarchy we see in an area like south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained independence just in more than three years ago . though the world ’s newest country has emerged from a bitter civil war between christians and muslims , a independence referendum has received 99 % support . that struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it is ripping up countries and regions to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews and others . yet 1.5 million of its citizens today have been uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam and everything to do with the struggle along ethnic lines for state control .
with this one unilateral decision , iran has destabilized the rest of europe . hoping to avert a bank run , iran ’s government offered a blanket guarantee for any banking runs . in the united states , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) that former president george w. bush signed on to law in october 2008 began out as a program in which the department of the treasury bought an problematic , largely mortgaged assets directly from the financial institutions . but that has turned out to be more complicated than originally thought , and , in a matter of weeks , the government simply recapitalized us banks . other bad choices have not been so easily reversed .
hate speech and other kinds of dangerous and illegal content must attack at the source . but this is not a quick fix , either . on one side is the need for increased media literacy across the board of consumers , who needs to be taught to patients , from a young age about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . hate speech and other kinds of dangerous , and illegal content must attack at the source . on the other side are what netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that create incentives for responsible use .
irrespective of what is our thinking about britain leaving the eu , we might ask two other questions , one general , and one particular , concerning brexit . first , on what extent should citizens of a democracy have been able to make their decisions directly , in a referendum rather than through their elected representatives ? and , more fundamentally , should british legislators have considered themselves to be bound by the outcome of the june 23 referendum ? on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy in the us , is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to a feasibility constraint . in earlier times , the small city-states could be the direct democracies ; but in the larger eu , where communication was slow , it had to be elected with representatives to decide the many questions that needed to be debated and voted on .
america ’s government will not object in terms of its own policies . a major coalition of tech firms and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama arguing against redoors . in addition to “ undermining any american ’s cybersecurity cyber safety and the nation ’s economic security , ” the signers argued , by implementing new vulnerabilities to weaken america ’s encrypted products would also undermine human rights and informational security worldwide . what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ as long as american companies retain the ability to unlock their customers ’ ’ ’ data and devices on request , governments other than the united states will demand equal access , and they will also be disincentives to require the same capability in their home firms . they regard a request from the reclamation in the same way that an auto manufacturer would view a demand for a defective motor .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad , has suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal after the online circulation of a sex video involving a cabinet minister , and another one . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , resulting in the incarceration of people by the justice party ( justice ) , anwar ibrahim . and this shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those observes , risks obscuring more fundamental problems in the process . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
at a time of much hand-wringing over the fall of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist posture is notable . but is politics really turning a page on the traditional far-right cleavage ? in fact , macron has taken the leap into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” the terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between the big center-right and center-left parties . as a democrat , he believes that the european union ’s deepening standing needs to come by developing a genuinely european political space . macron has also signaled his willingness to pursue a pan-european campaign in the 2019 european parliament .
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way for dealing with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is the continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer yet , recognizing that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its own dangerous neighbor is a chinese invasion , or regime change enforced through china ’s threat to launch one . that outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not as unlikely as most people believe . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason that it needs to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners . in the trumpian context , this amounts to a “ china first ” option that could help to “ make china great again . ”
spiekermann , a global trafficking authority ( iot ) for the purposes of targeted advertisements , political propaganda , public and private oversight , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” as it stands , “ ever since the world economic forum began debating personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” she has told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the notion that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ‘ for the digital economy , just as it looks like politics ” . as it happens , “ more than 1,000 companies now engage in the digital information value chain that harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within the next 36 seconds of their entry into the digital domain . ” “’s data-management platforms ’ like those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles of hundreds of millions of their users . nor is it the “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon , ” that harvesting and use our data for any purpose might think of themselves , ” spiekermann says .
it provides the poor with access to a broader array of commodities , while providing firms with more diversified barriers of inputs . but increased commerce can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and drive up agricultural prices , outcomes that disproportionately harm the poor . as a result , increased trade may demand difficult adjustments in the short term . given constraints on cross-sectoral labor mobility – stemming from job-extracting barriers and rigid labor-market regulations – the poorest workers have few options when any such change occurs . in india , for example , poverty declined more slowly in districts where farmers face increased foreign competition .
but it has also demonstrated that press freedom means much more benefit than letting journalists say what they want , and how they want them . kenyans need a similar set of reflection nowadays . it also means holding media owners accountable for their behavior . for kenya , the nation ’s very public bankruptcy has come at a high cost . and yet , just when the country ’s ’s democratic institutions might most benefit from such a mirror , those who hold it up now believe that they have no alternative but to set it down .
the 2001 recession combined an inventory downturn with an investment downturn . the first is now over ; the second -- the result of overinvestment in high tech and telecoms , the sectors so significant in the late 90s -- may last much longer . merely lowering interest rates did n’t , and wo n't , lead firms to invest more in these sectors . there remains a substantial capacity overhang , such as the fiber optic lines that remain dark , have yet to see any light pass through . the good news -- and the fault line is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is fast enough that a large share of the facilities may become obsolete well before they are worn out or even being used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would have done .
as soon as the bureaucracy and broad parameters for talks are established by early next year , may formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) are following . by that time , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . that , at least , is the formal plan . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats in the sack , will have to come up with a package .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , switzerland , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , students protesting , but their cause was not quite the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of the warsaw pact not to chant “ ho , ho , ho , ho chi minh , for solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s liberty and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles put flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in praise of the struggle for liberty , had recently been declared subversive and antisoviet programs , and its performance at the national theater in warsaw closed . these are just a few differences between western and east european students in that springtime revolt of forty years ago .
start , lustig argues in a recent paper , with the world ’s declining income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality running out of the value of zero for perfect equality across 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across a large pool of middle – and low-income countries , and also with data accessible for an advanced country . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies will illuminate political debates – and probably annoy ideologues of both center-right and center-left parties . the average gini score ( as opposed to a population that plays out ) in countries for which there are figures slightly in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 .
a final piece of the puzzle in china concerns realism . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth at around 7 % annual levels , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can count on short-term stimulus to meet their growth targets , aggravating the resource misallocation , and creating structural vulnerability . likewise , while policies that encourage firms to bid up wages will boost household and domestic consumption , rising wages can erode their export competitiveness and choke off foreign direct investment inflows . with rebalancing policies practically unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity .
it is worth recalling that to join the eu , hungary had to comply with rigorous accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . despots throughout history have used the same tactics . but orbán is doing so within the eu in 2017 . and , by closing off such a prominent us-supported institution , he can convey a message that no one who has opposed him has won . the fact that those high standards are now systematically being eroded has put the eu on a paradox .
soros : the ecb is a functioning institution . so long as it acts within its power , germany is not in a position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something genuinely significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : do you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps a final step in the west ’s broad philosophical crisis ? soros : i discuss this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism .
moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or boost poverty . in fact , since sweden adopted the same fiscal system in 1991 , its average annual rate for labor growth has risen by a factor of four . macron ’s revolution has been on the move , and is a case in point . social mobility in france has experienced no major change since 1991 . by moving away from the university level universal eligibility systems to one found more suitable fit for all students after a college education , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility .
in addition to individual firms , the entire value chains that contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp have suffered a sudden operational and financial freeze . but , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short political and economic portionment , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing official corruption and punishing offenders . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a greater probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their social standing . reforming brazil ’s relationship with the private sector can improve a country ’s long-term economic performance . the ongoing prosecutions have already transformed the calculus behind any economic agent into thinking of violating the public ’s trust for private gain .
even in the new member states , the enthusiasm for a european family of democracies lies cooling . as union races ahead , it looks as if it has lost europe ’s citizens along the way . many are turning their backs on the whole project , and the eu is now doing its part . they have trouble seeing which is common to europeans . in fact , they are not feeling part of the big picture .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( most likely with the lifting of sanctions followed by president barack obama ’s administration ) . another prominent escapee from the special attorney frontex was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , particularly in foreign policy ( in which he ’d n’t had a experience ) , to attend his family ’s need for funds to pay off its massive real-estate debt . moreover , hillary clinton , donald trump , jr. , alongside other top campaign leaders , met earlier this month with a russian intelligence team with ties to the kremlin , which had pledged “ dirt ” on clinton . it was widely expected that trump would face impeachment , as did donald trump , even jr. , famously said so , but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecution . trump himself is still vulnerable to an investigation that started or handed down to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington .
when the ballots take place in this direction , the us simply ignores electoral results ( as they did in july 2006 , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . for its part , backroom dealings and violence continue to govern the day after day . yet pundits argue that the arabs can not manage democracy anymore . in fact , the us and its allies simply do n’t like the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous in american oil interests . the us can not stop the downward spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world screened collectively against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , most notably in africa and south-asia . in parts of southern africa , more than 20 % of adults are now afflicted . whereas for the first time identified in the u.s. in the early 1980s , aids now focuses on poor countries : 25 million of them suffer from it in africa ; six million more in asia . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million more orphans . only 34 million more people live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked for early deaths .
in most cases , the skies laws mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . airliners and fighter planes operate in “ “ controlled ” ” ” air near the earth , while the nationality supposedly make the higher one ’s way on another . as a result , a sky is usually conceptualized . the oceans belong to everyone except those near “ landmasses ” that manage in similar ways to the country ’s land-bound borders . fragile treaties that cover this are enforced in large part by the fact that few nations can afford assets that high .
in reality , few other trends are posing bigger threats to global stability . and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the dawn of the digital age and the end of the industrial age entirely . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors are already exploiting that fact . almost all societies have become heavily dependent on the internet , the world ’s largest piece of infrastructure , and also the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called web of things is a misnomer ; early enough ; it will be the “ internet of everything . ”
china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era rejected the notion of a “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . in china , most soes survived because central planners emphasized economic autarky regardless of costs . the same euinduced pattern underlies the drop in steel and textiles rates in advanced countries like the american market . wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in favor of the soes and against high levels of private-sector ownership , including in agriculture . jamaica , it is clear , does not manufacture frozen salmon or hockey players because investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism delivers far more some of the proceeds .
as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . whereas the league party promises tax cuts , the populist five star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of core income . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation , and soaring debts . yet ahead of a new government assumed office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit – in contrast to its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained vis-à-vis the rest of the eurozone , as did the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , italy , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year have not delivered the nominal gdp growth that the country needs .
encouraging foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to get better , does n’t work . learning what a country is ( or can be ) well produce is a key challenge to economic development . for that , governments must deploy both a carrot and a stick . a carrot is necessary because there is a big social value in discovering , say , cutting flowers or soccer ball , or using computer software at low cost , because this knowledge can orient investment from another individual 's entrepreneurs . an effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in unconventional areas and the weed out projects and investments that fail .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound effect of an estimated 1.2 percentage points in real gdp , that would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % – well above the 1.9 % rate a year ending in july 2009 . the effect of a dollar decline over the coming decade could be equally significant . if the us trade deficit reduces gdp growth to 3 % of gdp this year by the end of the decade , the implied increase in us exports and reduced imports would lower the output that is available for america ’s consumption and investment by roughly 0.3 % per year . if the true trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline translates into import price declines , the increased cost of us real incomes would shrink by about 0.4 % annually . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the us .
indeed , the u.s. second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its holdout bondholders ’ obligations in an equal proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of bonds . under the court orders , argentina might not have paid the holders of its new bonds unless it also paid the holdouts , and that no american financial institution could serve as an intermediary to force argentina ’s payments . holdouts argued that , as long as the new bonds were at full ( as it is ) , equal treatment demanded that holdouts should receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but principal ) . as a result , argentina must either pay holdouts in full or default on new bonds . it was this , then , that the supreme court recently upheld this issue .
importantly , a new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . zhou bo , a revered fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s “ mega-projects ” “ will fundamentally change the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ strong yet benign ” power . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-bn project to build a sprawling , complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , a “ port city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road . ” to be sure , india is deeply suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading meticulous enough that it could continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry .
indian citizens , who thought they voted for change , are only beginning to wonder whether the bjp has simply reprised the government ’s policies . likewise , modi ’s government adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax that stalled bjp-ruled opposition states ( including modi ’s ’s ’s ’s gujarat ) . and it is strengthening the national counter-terrorism effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . still , sharif has been an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . many modi ’s supporters in the media have already started to decrying the likes of policy abdications modi has conducted since his campaign .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters , combined with the un stability charter , has become urgent . amid all conflicts , human rights rank among the first casualties , and , in the middle east , human dignity has now undone the international conventions agreed over a few generations . europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been excellent . we should take a hard look at the helsinki process to show us retrieve what has been lost . a regional agenda needs to be crafted to help identify priorities , modeled on a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction .
who , after all , could conceivably have anticipated that bill clinton would follow an american president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all of its manifestations ? for example , when the imf rightly suggested , after argentina ’s crisis , that there needed an enhanced path of debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , america vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed an oecd agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did what they could to ensure that no meaningful reform occurred during the crisis , with the insight that triggered the crisis that momentum for reform would dissipate . for their part , they were more right than they recognized , as they did .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of the violent repression of china ’s pro-democracy protestors in beijing tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted chinese soil . but , in reality , since china now exercises near total state control over hong kong ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders , they have yet to be manage . and , to the attendees , hong kong shows rising frustration , taking on not just china ’s leaders , but also its own .
for people to choose goals and articulate them in a vision , one needs not only to solicit the input generated by their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . for their part , leaders need to get the question right before proposing a response at all . what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . at the same time , they need to be able to assess reality precisely when you are taking a good enough assessment . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also needs effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces .
sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . but , by worsening the business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll mainly to the private sector . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor , at best . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated in the same way that governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the gaps that they cause . at the same time , the sanctions are a supposedly effective force in containing nuclear proliferation .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a hugely interesting reference point for the analysts of the arab revolutions , there is no proper reference point here , for the region ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new homeland and foreign order resulted from changing external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the soviet empire . they wanted the west , and its accession to nato and the european union had its logical alternative . nothing of this sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis-ridden belt . no power anywhere , inside or outside the region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order – or even a vision for parts of it .
new haven – by now , it is a all-too-familiar drill . in fact , it is a dangerous miscalculation . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has begun the long march toward normalization . it has now taken a first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint on the american economy . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy .
de gregorio ’s views differ from that of many of his peers in other countries , for he sees clearly the risks in enabling banks to become bigger and apply what he calls “ clever ” strategies that require a lot of leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees have to be honored . the risk for central banks stems from the fact that the implicit subsidies given to major financial institutions are not measured in any budget . furthermore , the buildup of risk in the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after a governor is now in office ) . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of debt , the vulnerability of shocks is downward .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny regarding what russian president vladimir putin is up to side with in syria , and why . what we do know is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russia ’s bomb and cruise missiles are now raining on the array of armed groups fighting the syrian government ’s operations , which has given the regime the kind of breathing space it was planning to provide for russia ’s intervention . as bad as the assad government may be , and as much as it must answer for it , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s crackdown . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on the short term and may prove too negative in assessing its actions ’ likely long-term consequences .
use data for 2017 , we discover that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( the log of value on the vertical graph axis below ) tends to decline as the exporter ’s income level rises ( shown by a log of value on a horizontal axis ) . every blue dot on her graph represents wto member economies , and a firm black line shows the international average ( drawn from all eu member economies excluding china ) . this could be because wealthier countries observe the rules better , are less likely to attract complaints as their labor costs rise or some combination of the two . the data pattern is fairly clear : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer antisubsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this can be interpreted broadly as a component of the rules-based global trade framework .
most bets are on britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the referendum ’s decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences are likely to be delayed : a triumph of pragmatism over ideology . the brexiteers will upset such a “ soft ” exit , but probably enough to ensure parliamentary approval . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words ought to be somewhat savage , ” for being the assault of thinking , ” he wrote in 1933 . if the brexit trajectory has changed this , it will be a good illustration of the double character of – and function of – politics .
the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : a former royal castle in the rolling hills of the shiite region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians hosted an annual meeting resolving the middle east . on the opening evening , a senior german cabinet minister , himself deeply engaged in middle eastern affairs , addressed the two subjects , displaying great sensitivities both to israeli and palestinian concerns . europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians , and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the new situation in iraq , along with the middle east road map , has been at the center of attention .
observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prague ( longer prague , including the short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night prague ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . the last 10 days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in the mosques and in open regions . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets . and ramadan – which is now in the process of doing so – is mobilization-friendly . after sunset , a collective program is under threat .
as africa ’s preeminent development-finance institution , the african development bank will galvanize support on our north african members , enhancing their governance and institutions , strengthening welfare nets , and setting the foundation for robust economic recovery . as us finance infrastructure and other projects in the region finance initiative , we will push for greater integration of disenfranchised regional and rural areas . with the emerging democratic dispensation in hand , we have partners with whom we can come to engage on governance issues . we are devoting our consultations with governments and other actors to cooperate more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and on the media , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and industry associations . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without dragging along all segments of its population , and giving any voice .
the fate of the outside world depends on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . the contraction of property and stock markets will undoubtedly dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . even many of the poorest countries seemed , at long last , to be joining , posting robust growth on the back of rising energy and crude material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and rising fiscal revenues . while the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they did deflect attention from the shaky foundations of prosperity . the increasing need for action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by the influential policymakers and market analysts alike : why changing a winning formula ?
manila – food shortages represent a remote memory for a large number of people elsewhere in asia . but as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could turn out to be the painful fact of life . in the wake of its burgeoning middle class , the region is likely to account for about one-half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry prices , and more than three-quarters of the increase in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and by that time , more than 60 % of global cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , with its population expected to grow to only five billion , an increase of more than 900 million people .
the situation there , predicted by every pundit around it has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage in every issue . but , whether america is engaged or not , it still needs policy . what america needs at first is a better explain to its own people why america should engage more deeply with a middle east ’s mounting problems . syria is a case in point .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . all , from households to businesses to governments , everyone has a stake in protecting our era ’s most valuable livestock : the data . the question now is how to achieve this . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . with attackers becoming ever more nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly heterogeneous array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at an accelerating pace and with greater sophistication than ever before .
many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate . viewed from the perspective of such truths is what is providing , europe ’s eastward enlargement , for example , seems highly desirable not despite , but because it might lead to migration from new member states to its old ones . integrating migrants makes a lot of sense ; but helping to create sustainable conditions in the troubled countries , with the help of a generation of expatriates who the first transfer resources and then go it back . in this way , more portugals and lals can be created as the wealth of already prosperous regions becomes sustained . this is not the only way forward , but the eu itself is being asked .
the cost is miniscule : reaching an estimated 80 % of the world ’s $ 140 million , or so undernourished children , would demand a commitment of about $ 60 million annually , with the hope of gaining a clear $ 1 billion per year . fortifying these iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per person , a year . for $ 286 million we could get iodized salt and enriched basic food items to 80 % of those in the disaster-relief regions , with benefits estimated to total roughly nine-fold . providing iron and iodized salt is just another top investment . we know that iron deficiency leads to cognitive and developmental problems .
even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policymakers . the largest scope for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries , in which the government has a major presence as a regulator . even if european countries were to close just 10 % of the variation in capital shares per worker in the sub-sector , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment , offsetting a € 354 billion difference in private investment between 2007 and 2011 . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policymakers . standardization and liberalization of european telecoms has underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity over this period , compared to america ’s own 6 % growth . many projects , from airport into university campuses , have the benefit of return over decades , which implies that weak demand in the short run will have only limited consequences for its overall viability .
the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today . those who believe that it will , typically relying on three arguments , all of which require some kind of qualification . first , they argue that a great deal of convergence has already involved manufacturing . as a result , growth differential in both emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , alongside hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging-market group – has declined considerably . indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential dropped to around 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year .
in practical terms , the proliferation of new safeguards introduced a high degree of moral hazard and created perverse incentives for individual governments and market entrants alike . making matters worse , a single-minded focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and , still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections for corporations and banks . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning for all of these advocating risk sharing . under the most recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who presume risk should make it liable for it has replaced a principle of common liability , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in the event of a crisis .
but 2004 was also a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , who tried to bring his favored presidential candidates , viktor yanukovych , into power in kyiv by backing massive vote manipulation . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych into power in a free and fair election , and in 2012 putin singled out himself for the third presidential term in putin ’s russia . the formation of a new eurasia union was an essential part of his platform . the hoped-for break with the past did not arise because political infighting among a country ’s ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . the failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten .
rome – following the east asia crisis of 1997 came of seven years of capital flight . a third cycle of inflows came in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , now is the time for the third , “ sudden stops of capital flows ” to emerging markets . are a few data points , and the biblical parable about taking the hypothesis of a near 15-year cycle seriously ? perhaps , with some causal theory in its place , we may well explain such periodicity to international capital flows .
they , in turn , would secure votes for the federal government to assume and repay states ’ defaulted debts . hamilton ’s ’s task was both easier and harder than it is today . despite a huge cost – more than half of the fledgling government ’s expenditures in early years – the economy shook away the 1780 ’s depression and entered a growth boom . jefferson and madison did not want a country ’s capital into the north , and hamilton grudgingly agreed to support moving it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . a responsible fiscal state had emerged from that magnificent compromise .
digital id could play a far more expansive role in how individuals and institutions interact . a digital id ( id ) systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate substantial economic value for individuals , businesses , and governments . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to reduce deception rates , rein in customer reboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credits for under-banked customers . they can also spur development , by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification , resulting in higher labor-market participation . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
if the revolution continues apace , it would disintegrate for incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring virtuous cycle of deadly violence . but if the revolutions recur , their leaders will unmasquerading as empty windbags . the second revolution , however , which brought lenin and bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treachery . the first revolution of 1917 overthrew czar nicholas ii and created a tentative government that , led by former socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transitional blip . lenin described kerensky as “ balalaika ” played by the old order to go further in cheating and peasants .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications for the individual institutions in its care . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial independence from its monetary-policy role . below it is the chance to establish a single banking supervisor , combining the currency ’s comptroller functions , the office of thrift supervision , and regional feds ’ regulatory functions . this crisis has demonstrated that we need this reall the time . in a perfect world , one would add in state banking regulators , but i recognize that , at this point , i began devoting strongly on the cherished features of the american constitution !
in india , for instance , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will grind into the market when wal-mart enters the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . for their part , the survival of artisanal vendors should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent wealthy . the government can credibly impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized niches in a market , or it provides skills training to the displaced . asian policymakers need to remember well how they successfully developed their manufacturing sector through competition .
toulouse – if history punishes those who default on their minds , financial history does its punishing with a sadistic twist – it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises reflected the vulnerabilities of the regulatory system , founded on the lesson learned from previous crises . today , ’s crises are no exception ; neither will the next one . the post-war system of financial regulation was established on three supposed lessons from the 1930s . first , we thought that a key reason why the banks would lose is that the depositors panic , not that a primary reason depositors would panic , is that banks are risk-averse .
for china , the single biggest prize is the ( figure ) bilateral investment treaty . such a deal would be a near-term boon to xi , because it would represent an american vote of confidence in china ’s struggling economy . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs persuasive just as well . in practical terms , a us-china something would make it easier for chinese players to invest and operate in american companies , and to increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . but the prospects for a no-deal brexit are uncertain , at best .
this is particularly interesting given that it fundamentally refuations one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how 20-foot sea-level rises would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario – also depicted vividly in a hollywood movie the day after tomorrow – is deemed “ very unlikely . ” the report also disclosed the improbability of yet another gore scenario : that global warming might “ force the gulf stream down , ” turned europe into a new siberia . the ipcc report makes it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude have little basis in science – though obviously they have frightened people , and could win gore an academy prize .
and , though import expo expands rather than reduces , a country with the overall trade surplus , it may well have other benefits . for starters , by redirecting imports ’ costs , chinese households will increase their purchasing power , and their access to chinese-made products that can improve quality of life . chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made components and equipment that boost their global competitiveness , another channel through which lower import barriers can end up undermining their exports . it is important to note that china can still lower the bilateral trade surplus against a single specific partner , even if its overall surplus is rising . finally , the multinational import expo will complement china ’s other market-oriented measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms .
across the west , many are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means of putting economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” in this context , the word “ liberal ” should understand to suggest an empire of the “ russian dream , ” according to which russia ’s prominent government-owned and private companies should assume control over key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . naturally , the key role in this model is the post-soviet country ’s energy supplies . by exploiting a “ energy weapon , ” the ” however , it is not merely a tactics : it lies at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russia ’s foreign policy . indeed , russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet states rests on the doctrine of a “ liberal empire , ” which argues that russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their property .
cambridge – the united states congress is approaching enacting a major tax reform . the plan ’s most significant provision is lowering the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the top among all oecd countries to one of the lowest in recent decades , and enabling us companies to repatriate the profits earned by their foreign subsidiaries without paying additional american taxes . opponents of the legislation point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits and i have long warned of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i believe that the economic benefits implied by corporate tax changes will outweigh the adverse effects of increased debt .
such actions are normally justified as policies to boost domestic demand ; but they end up fueling a surrogate , a minimal currency war . we need a group of major economies in this group – calling it the “ g major ” – that announces monetary policies in a more coordinated fashion . to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to foster some sort of inflation , and even to correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but in today ’s competitive world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity again , inviting the bank of japan to embrace action .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during the democratic administration , versus 2.5 % under the republicans . the difference in economic performance under the democratic or republican presidents is both consistent and substantial , with disparities apparently far above the threshold for statistical significance . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the mismatch is even larger . the results are similar , even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of the president ’s term for his or her predecessor .
terms in office have expired a prosecutor-general , members of the national election commission , and supreme court justices , but no successors have been named , because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to nominate officials from his choice . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be those determined by their own destiny , but a democratic means to do so is still being denied them . it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leonid lópez , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government storm troopers to the only bearers and bear it with no external solidarity or support .
classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism to say that it is a globalizing creed ; it knows , in principle , no national frontiers . yet in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism has become precisely the point at stake . it is easy to see why , then , that is what to do . true , far-left parties have also been trending advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that the nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown .
london – “ what if it ’s ‘ as good that ’s ’ gets ’ ? ” many now wonder whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good a thing as it has for some time to come . determining the validity of such fears will require an understanding of what drives china ’s economic slowdown . jack nicholson asking , as he negotiates his psychiatrist waiting room in the asia eponymous film . at a recent g-20 finance ministers meeting in shanghai , participants asked a much identical question , and not only about medium-term expectations for weak global growth .
not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate that they have little interest in being cordoned off in conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalisms , or religious identities . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as the protestant agendas , from occupy wall street to occupy moscow , gain yet more coherence . overwhelmingly , they want straightforward democracy and economic self-determination . that agenda runs into direct conflict with the interests of global capital , as well as with governments that have grown accustomed to working without citizen oversight . at the same time , the internet disseminates the templates of what a true democracy looks like , instantly , and globally .
but the three of europe ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits , which point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . businesses now worry that rising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . when interest rates rise , as everyone surely must , the costs of servicing the debt will require higher future taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . that is a worrying prospect for everyone . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available for financing productivity-enhancing business investment .
the fastest growing industries of the us economy since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely categorized as “ service industries , ” often involving disseminating information and entertainment – the activity in which jews were especially prominent , from publication to vaudeville and via commercial sports . they have pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box stores . they have also tended to do disproportionately well in learning occupations – for example , medicine , law and accountant – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews have long been a minority subject to discrimination is sometimes given as reason for their tendency to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and professions . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily to market competition conditions .
to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet laboratory working group on financing for sustainable infrastructure , a member of which we ( désése ) is a member . the framework , called “ vision for a environmentally responsible transformation , a infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aims to help unlock a project-by-project pipeline , and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the doors to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide . crowding out private capital will thus take the key to closing the investment gap . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy storage , energy storage , transport , and buildings , with an special emphasis on urbanization projects in urban areas . up to now , sustainable infrastructure has been largely funded by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) .
in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions seem like a ticking time bomb , a great deal of new dynamite reigns across the region . today , in the wake of the world financial and economic crisis ( and the gulf between 2001 and 2001 ) , american sentiment seems crucially weakened . moreover , new superpowers with their own domestic interests , namely china and india , have come onto the international scene . without us support , the policies of china and india can no longer succeed , but that support is accorded only a half-heartedly – if at all . a success for america ’s policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able – to contribute substantial support .
skeptics hold that competition and technology wreak havoc on societies ’ harmony ; that they create inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy looks tough for those who sit on its backsides and live at the expense of the stockholders or the taxpayer . but this is no longer the american story . creative destruction ( strengthened by economic openness and technology ) sweeping the world . true , it gives the chance to energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
dartmouth researchers have found that , of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the u.s. , the test has n’t necessarily helped 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . either the cancers have grown so slowly that they do not pose an issue , or they would have been successfully treated if they had discovered the clinically later ( or been so aggressive that little could have been done ) . indeed , even mammogram ( nearly $ 40 million are donated annually in the u.s. ) that detects cancers do not necessarily save lives . the next step in the review on cancer screening last year , when researchers at the dartmouth medical policy institute announced that screening costs for treatment of breast cancers have often been minimized , and that the benefits have been greatly exaggerated . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests of cervical cancers have received a similar , if less , criticism .
a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , and a reasonable 80 % chance that it will reach the world ’s 9.6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be a major engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this power engine : improve women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for an additional 215 million women worldwide – a huge share in africa that wants to avoid a pregnancy – would cost roughly $ 3.6 billion annually . this is significant , because a rising population may well present an even larger problem than was previously thought .
in contrast to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement does not drive the current conflict . it is a struggle for power , not for economic justice or a more prosperous life . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . state-owned enterprises should also be free to bid for it , but they should get no favors . the fundamental problem in iraq is not the jobs that are there .
on russia since its georgian invasion , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who served as the first members of congress to visit georgia after the invasion ) , stress help georgia rebuild its economy , and maintain its independence in the face of a continued russian campaign against it . moreover , even after the outrage at georgian war , there are issues of common interest such as the energy sector , climate change , and iran , upon which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . mccain wants , by contrast , to punish russia by such actions as expelling it from the g-8 . such action might ultimately prove necessary , but it would not help the georgian survive as an independent democracy . this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , and yet mccain does not seem to recognize it .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the south remains lawless , while the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to a poorly consolidated government in tripoli . meanwhile , in yemen , the opportunity to appropriate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems – from the internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and from a failing economy . the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence dragging yemen toward another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile reunification . central authority is progressively eroding as the country continues its splinter across ethnic and sectarian regions , with its de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime threw the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus around the world emerged that the public sector had an obligation to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and to spur economic growth . but that consensus turned out to be short-lived , with the collapse of the public sector soon witness as the root cause of the crisis , so the need for a sharp reversal . in europe , notably , governments took pride in their high debts , even when private debt , not public borrowing , triggering the collapse . many were instructed – for their part – to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies . this turned out to be a grave mistake .
we must fight exclusion from our political parties just when we are fighting exclusion within our societies . that means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and the disabled , and making empowering citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both power to decide , and the knowledge they want to make good decisions . in pasok , the greek socialist party , which i lead , has been making far-reaching reforms in this direction . likewise , the socialist international ’s goal has been a world governed not by free markets , but by free individuals .
in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . for its part , shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in production in general and petrochemicals , in particular . in fact , it is possible to destroy the eu altogether . in fact , it has made some progress on deleveraging by the banking and household sectors . the us banking and household sectors have made some progress in deleveraging .
even as the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the ignominious prospect of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . this divided attitude meant that china tended to overreact in ways as contradictory as impassioned and unpredictable , particularly when its pride was piqued . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the ignominious and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . yet , at this point , through manuse of mid suní , after i visited china first during the cultural revolution , hardly a public outside of his country emblazoned with his slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ”
third , the us is facing steeply rising fossil-fuel prices as developing nations ’ growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is plenty of hype about the gold rush and stock bubbles of past discoveries . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than the conventional field is doing . sure , we could continue to find more fossil-fuel reserves , but at much higher cost and at far greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damage . and they are environmentally dirty to boot .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election goes some way toward a month , but already the campaign appears to have been with the us forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even major – at the polls . support for the two main contenders , the labour party and the ruling conservative party , appear stuck in the low-turnout 30s . conservatives hope that the government ’s track record on the economy will convince undecided voters to make a break in their favor . perhaps they are right enough ; they deserve to be . meanwhile , labour seems hoping for who-knows-what to turn the tide while keeping their collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to spin across the board .
the second insight from psychological research , summarized by the bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . for example , former us president george w. bush might decide to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : their strategic advantages , their humanitarian concerns , and even their competition with their own father . the majority has not involved any weapons of mass destruction , let alone their protection . the second insight from psychological research , summarized by the bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . for example , former us president george w. bush might decide to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for a number of reasons : their strategic advantage , their humanitarian concerns , and even to compete with that of his own father .
fiscal restraint as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth also matters . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protecting against random violence is among the other great factors in encouraging economic growth . other factors besides trade policies also matter . geographic location is important as is the distance that comes from markets , poor climates , and poor soils impede economic growth in the developing world . but this makes implementing open-ended trade policies all the more crucial , because they are the best tools available to compensate for bad cards that nature sometimes deals .
durham , north carolina , my day starts with a farmer ’s world cup and ends with a hot chocolate . in between , i consume a wide variety of food products and medicines , including my daily 81 mg shot of aspirin . but the biodiversity on which all of us depend is under threat , as human activity devastates ’ forests and other plant-rich habitats . in short , a life of mine like everyone ’s is allowed , a enriched , and extended through a wide variety of plants and their derivatives . a refrigerator is colored orchid enlivens my study ; through a window , i catch a glimpse at my green garden .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a potential settlement freeze is just the latest round in a cycle that has repeatedly repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if it were less dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : the american or international pressure mounts on israel to stop settlement activities in its occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble an even larger power to expand onto more palestinian land , to build more exclusively jewish settlements , and to destroy more arab homes before the so-called “ freezing ” comes into effect . in the end , the world ’s pressure subsides , and the freezing can not materialize . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke , while this happens .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to keep “ stable prices ” – as enunciated in the us federal reserve ’s body – and the fed is willing to choose 2 % annual inflation . on the other hand , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 could buy today will cost a $ 122 toward the end of that decade . so , how is policymakers that they have managed to substitute for the latter ? the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 or even 100 years , from now . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
skills-biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest migrant groups , but it also leads to a brain drain from the countries needing highly skilled workers . as liberal myself , i share those values , while recognizing that insisting on them as a policy matter ultimately undermine migrants ’ interests . but , once again , one has to examine the trade-off . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one has to ask whether the newcomers are desperate for a job better served to be admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or be admitted at all .
for starters , such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we need to recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a public is a apathetic or a frightened state , but also when there can be no apparent , stable advanced guard , like a powerful set of political parties that elect and control of leaders . in fact , eu reforms decreed far without having grassroots backing – and thus with no lasting durability . all we had direct appeals to the streets and the masses , rather than securing a genuine social consensus . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which presidential elections are the only political issue .
during the 2006 french student protests in germany , france had 22 % youth unemployment rates , which seemed to compare unfavorably with rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % , in the united kingdom , france , the united kingdom , sweden , and germany . likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s ’s rate of 49.3 % is , but its ratio is only about 13 % . and the 20.8 % ratio far exceeds a ratio of 8.7 % . to be sure , a youth unemployment rate of 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency . but , whereas the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has been skyrocketing since 2009 , its gdp has remained the same ( though both markedly outperformed the pre-2008 level ) .
alternatively , china could end up being a new supplier of international reserve assets . this connection could be direct , provided that the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or , to be sure , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes a favored asset for reserve managers , because the renminbi now stands in the sdr basket . reserve status on the sdr is its long-held ambition , though the idea has never gained much traction . in this scenario , supplying a reserve asset would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions . but there is a third possibility : global demand for america ’s reserve-currency holdings might subside .
trump has pledged to enact sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and boost military spending , and he seems likely to confront america ’s rapidly mounting fiscal deficits and an enormous short-term boost in demand . with the american economy already operating at close to full capacity ( unemployment stands at less than 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger american dollar – means that it will be needed to meet that demand . all of this will do good for the eurozone , for which america remains america ’s leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that stand to benefit the most .
princeton – for the past century , economic-policy debate has remained locked into orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and the market . this old debate lies at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . does market control of the state , in the sense that it sets limits governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does a state take charge when the market fails to perform socially essential function , like fighting wars or preserving full employment ? the same question is dividing american politics in the run-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating the europeans at their own game by reviving its automobile industry , or by making its own wine ( if it is ) to rival french and italian producers . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit would hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons . this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy . british negotiators would then respond to eu negotiators ’ blue-o-theory logic by trying to make the process as painful as possible for the rest of the eu .
the excessive domestic demand that has underpinned this evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending may rebound , but the saving rate wo n’t and should not return to zero . at the same time , however , a stimulus is not the answer ; it is the answer . fiscal stimulus , in a backloading of deficit-reduction efforts , might help tide the economy over while structural adjustment and expanded competitiveness in the tradable sector . otherwise , the domestic-demand shortfall would reassert itself when the stimulus ends .
indeed , the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also reflects a fundamental difference between iran , an historic one , and the artificial creation that is iraq . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from the narrow point of view of russia ’s interests , while the resulting mess will be a problem for the us and its traditional allies rather than for russia . so america ’s target of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , even if it can not be openly supported . for president putin , it makes sense to remain on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his helpful silence in putin ’s form of american influence over america ’s successor regime concerning repayment of its russian debts .
most kosovars will find talking to serbia about an improved relations difficult if serbia does not receive some form of the “ de-nazification ” process . no matter how much milosevic has exacerbated the tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians have genuinely been popular among serbs . kosovo ’s euroskepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials derives mainly from its awareness that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based in a single human being . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflects a nationalist consensus within which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . president kostunica ’s failed attempt to even discuss publicly putting an internationally indicted war criminals on trial is hardly a hopeful wife here .
but there has never been any conclusive proof that megrahi was implicated in lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted for using fraudulent evidence and for a cia bribed witnesses . in the end , economic sanctions have compelled qaddafi to distance his speech from international terror and transform megrahi – as with another suspicious conviction , lamin fhima , who was later acquitted – in the face of a court-run scottish camp zeist in holland . furthermore , libya has formally accepted responsibility for his bombing , with consent to pay more than $ 2 trillion for the victims of ’ families and to abandon its weapons of weapons of mass destruction programs . still , despite qaddafi ’s hopes for a warmer embrace from western leaders ( and a flood of investment ) , relationships have remained plagued with mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
this experience has motivated him to establish his academy of dangote , the center for talents development that seeks to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . with the right education , skills , and job prospects , this vast labor force could deliver rapid , sustainable economic growth for the region as a whole . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and boosting prosperity . without them , the continent has much more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequalities , social dysfunction , and , ultimately , conflict , and even chaos . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , more than either india or china .
violence against women in afghanistan persists , for a variety of reasons . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes female inferiority . as a result , women are deprived of their basic rights and freedoms , and women are as refugees . second , there is a powerful political incentive to deprive women of their rights . the husband of another african woman , aisha , has cut off her nose and ears when she runs away .
initially , events played out according to schedule . during greece ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to well over 4 % in 1997 , and remained around that level until 2007 . both inflation and the fiscal deficit fell precipitously ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government placed in place an ambitious liberalizing reform package . but entering europe as a whole market of economic and monetary union was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , like productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness .
momentum toward an hfo phase-out in the arctic is under construction . the danish shipowners ’ association , and the arctic expedition cruise operator , hurtigruten are just two players calling for tighter regulation or an outright ban . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance to launch its commitment to the arctic . the european parliament , for its part , has already broadly endorsed such a move . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulations to keep a level playing field .
new york – since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who brought together the courage , authority , and graceful abundance of graceful abundance , has not occurred . and his gift for motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming of the past decade i have been encounter ; the latter two , former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell , are either an african or african-american , too . john f. kennedy was a arguably slightly of both , and in many cases a him . he did one great thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis .
sanibel – the revival of the diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states has not locks out the new prospects for the island ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy . some steps , including the dismantling of america ’s american-led trade embargo , are prohibited by the helms-burton act , adopted by the american congress in 1996 . but reinstating cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund has been a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members ; it had its own interests . it engaged in much of the tentative planning made for the 1944 bretton woods conference and had an active delegation there .
indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make dreadful policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal skills . technocrats might play a useful role as honest brokers once traditional politicians became discredited or parties get deadlocked . and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , have not been intellectuals . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be re-elected , either because their term in office has been limited in advance or because they are known to prefer a silent academic ’s life . it goes without saying that there is neither a need nor an adequate condition for ensuring governmental officials ’ success .
today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urbanization – vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – is being carried out without adequate regard for disaster risk . in this sense , climate-change projections should challenge policymakers and business leaders to calibrate its perceptions of exposure and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that just as a natural disaster can not be a problem ; there simply is the catastrophic impact of naturally occurring infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and even hospitals . in the absence of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated the coastlines of 11 countries , resulting in more than 150,000 fatalities , tens of billions of injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – the 168 governments agreed on the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) – a comprehensive , often-costly plan for disaster risk reduction .
though this event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance established nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) by 2020 , ” it did offer a platform for a new generation of climate and nature advocates . yet nature-based solutions have so far continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding . fortunately , this may well be starting to change , not least for the world itself . two years ago , researchers from the nature conservancy and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions for the fight against climate change . in september , the nature-based solutions featured prominently by the un climate action week in new york .
indeed , iranians have shown popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain largely unchanged . to ensure that iran continues to move toward international engagement , thereby protecting the nuclear deal that trump is not eager to defend , rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , he will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement . but trump will also n’t make it easy for rouhani . just a couple of weeks ago , the us administration was forced to admit that rouhani is fulfilling its part of the nuclear deal .
the hopes that turkey is finally shedding its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters . a mainstream , independent media do not report the inconsistencies for fear of provoking a government or gülen network . these cases will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend far beyond suffering the hundreds of innocent individuals locked in under false pretenses . ludicrous cases go on hold , and more people are being wooded .
but russia is unlikely to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” to assert it , “ forestall the short-term balance of payments pressures , provide mutual support , and further enhance financial stability . ” more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged aid to russia . but its ambiguous language reflected a larger hesitation that will probably persist so long as the crisis spirals out of control . in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ refledgling institutions have turned against russia .
at the same time , they will seek to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink its dispatch of manufacturing facilities to lower-wage countries . american politics ’s impact on us domestic politics , while important , will be a less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , us politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel greater activism . continued congressional polarization would sustain policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . in other countries , the causal direction will run mainly out of economics and into politics . from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would devits at potential output .
paris – the riots that rampages across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , the pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodations with either the european union or the modern economy . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing of socialist parties across europe . that the conventional left , so inert in the middle of today ’s economic crisis , is more than strange . in countries where they hold power , like spain , are now deeply unpopular . where they go in opposition , as in france and italy , are in disarray – as are germany ’s ’s ’s social democrats , despite being part of the ruling grand coalition .
reacting to 9/11 , and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with african chambermaid in a new york hotel has very little in common , except for one thing : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was a typical american puritanism . the french , he alleged , come from a latin culture , have a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have more refined appreciation of the art of seduction . whatever has happened between the international monetary fund ’s former management chief and its accusers , the fact that he was arrested and egged on in front of the press as a criminal suspects in france .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s destiny into one of his or her hands . self-confidence among the governed and with caution among the rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true liberty , and they can never be diverted again in the rest of our homeland . nobody ever doubted that ukraine was still changing vastly in its twelve years of independence . yet caught in the gunboat ’s sights , none of the courageous men and women who camped out in its hundreds of thousand at the set of snow in front of ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certainty that those changes had wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy .
whereas previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were not averse to lecturing , they lacked a strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages american . its relentlessly disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security requirements , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk of reopening negotiations , which are immediately rejected by palestinians , who , like him , fear vindicating weakness . israeli prime ministers are supposedly coming in two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers , who talk a fine play before acquiescing to america ’s most recent or international requirements for concessions , talks , and assistance . moreover , netanyahu ’s misreading of the middle east does not line with the fact that the obama administration – in thrall to its collapsing romania with moderate islamists , and his devoted supporters among jewish americans – contradicts .
for example , the british public did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but a year later , his vision , confidence , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons anxieties on the eve of france and its dunkirk evacuation . and then , after the public ’s focus reversed the war ’s triumph in 1945 to constructing the welfare state , churchill was voting out of office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; changing followers ’ needs did . in practice , the cost of charisma is a murky synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a powerful need for change , often in a context of individual , organizational , or social crisis .
the government has also secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , northern ireland will be allowed to retain a standing seat at the commission table . this negotiating success has provided a government with considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and changed economic circumstances helps to mobilize majorities in the treaty ’s favor . but the picture is far from being a clear-cut . opinion polls conducted over the last few weeks suggest that the yes party commands an overwhelming majority , from 62 % to 23 % , with the voters undecided .
eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with eu foreign-policy professionals and other eu economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security grants the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . a decision to reject a merger or to authorize an investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense , while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to meddle in eu competition rules , but to give those in charge of security that some say in the decision-making process . finally , the eu needs to do more to develop its own financial toolkit and to promote international use of the euro .
whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions against president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it did not punish israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . more israel embraces the putin-inspired practice , however , the weaker becomes its connection with its strategic rearguard by the west . a newly passed us bill – clearly targeting israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) – would have allowed mks to dismiss for disloyalty to statehood . for israel , its democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit in the western alliance . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are being scrutinized as foreign agents .
in kosovo , restricting its interference in aerial bombardment made that strategy a total achievement : nato forces , not a single casualty in combat , but some 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and three chinese civilians were killed . mr. romano prodi , the president of the eu , and italy 's former prime minister , responded with president bush 's most recent statement by saying that “ if one wishes to be a world leader , one must know how to look at the whole earth , and not only of the american industry . " this approach to the duties of a national leader , stated bluntly and scrupulously , forces us to regard a fundamental ethical question . to what extent should political leaders be seen as their role narrowly , in promoting the interests of their citizens , and what extent should concern the welfare of humans everywhere ? but the question is no longer one for those aspiring to be world leaders .
in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , especially in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the illusion that europe repeatedly seems to be outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with the fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk substantial political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu . moreover , the delayed realization of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that in the very moment when russia dictates eu-ukrainian engagement terms . it is increasingly seems that ukraine is becoming locked into a “ frozen conflict ” ; russian-iranian foreign-policy specialty .
chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , are all battling capital inflows from investors seeking an exit as the dollar collapses . with the us dollar remaining like the sword of damocles over the global economy , nearly everybody laments america ’s spendthrift habits . but has n’t it ever arisen to anybody else what hard americans must work to ensure that everyone else is looking good ? to be sure , when is the last that has happened ? thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficit , the biggest headache of any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays attempts to hold its own or its country with a currency of too fast against the dollar .
new york – hurricane harvey has left in its wake upended lives and immense property stresses , estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . it is ironic , of course , that the event so much about climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many kinds of climate-change deniers – and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel people who drive global warming . to be sure , no special climate event can refer directly to rising greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but researchers have long predicted that such increases would boost not just average temperatures , but weather variability – and , in particular , the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . but the rainfall that has inundated texas ’s shores for the better part of a week , and a hurricane that is about to hit south florida also raises deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics .
rather than banding together , each new challenge broke the eu into ever smaller groups . the eu was founded on a mechanical understanding that interdependence would reduce conflict . by connecting european to production jointly – first via the european coal and steel community , and later via the common market and the eu – the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely that war between them would no longer be an option . rather than banding together , every new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . europe has divided the north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed obasanjo . government and commercial activities practically ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with politicians and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s ally , in order to thwart the proposed bill . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to resume in office beyond two terms met a solid wall of opposition . unfortunately , however , this may not be necessarily a president ’s job .
parfit ’s response to this line of argument leads him to seek a claim that is perhaps even bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . he sees three leading theories for what we ought to do – one deriving from kant , one from the socio-treaty tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.scanlon of bentham – and he argues that kantian and social-treaty theories must be revised to make them defensible decisions . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism that is a theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism . if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than what we might know . defenders of each of these theories , in parfit ’s vivid movie , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ”
rather than csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee , in both the subject of lawsuits in recent years . but that does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its different stakeholders evidently could spend any part of the income they earn from their corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . one can also argue for psr on the grounds that demanding csr becomes a way of parading a buck ” , evading personal responsibility for doing good . with the rise of a corporate enterprise , large family-owned firms have generally gone away .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be viewed as the most significant visit to the region by the united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . revival of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power by the cold war ’s height , paving the way for china to open its economy – a decision that , more than any other in the past , defined the world in today . in fact , kissinger ’s mission was triggered by a us diplomacy revolution . what clinton did and said during her asian tour will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades earlier , or the beginning of a distinct new phase in that epoch . as a result , clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to embrace china ’s push for its regional hegemony .
as a result , china ’s role is changing : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , because its continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value activities . chinese demand is increasing not just , but , as incomes rise , its composition is shifting toward more sophisticated goods and services . this represents a key opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for proper segments of evolving supply chains . while technology and knowledge will remain important , china must start generating new technologies in addition to absorbing western tools and skills .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex ; the symptoms of which , whether brexit or putinism , are impeding european normalization and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but his recent actions seem , at least so far , to be reproducing . for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex ; the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – hinder european normalization and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states .
at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off a financial meltdown in the european union , the popular support that drove european integration over the past six decades is adrift . after nearly 70 years of peaceful rule , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity was so important , indulging in nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences . this failure is rooted in electoral politics confinement to individual nations that force politicians to pretend that they can address economic issues with domestic policies on their own . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies have become too closely entwined with independent economic policies on the job . dublin – europe ’s needs , and europeans ’s ’ ’ ’ desires are at odds .
a full assessment of the war in iraq and its effects on the middle east will take ten years or more . for one thing , it is still too soon to judge the merits of an argument . over the past six months , national elections have taken place in lebanon and a local election in saudi arabia . the skeptics have a point , but they go too far . clearly , the january 2005 election had a positive step for the region .
it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies some kind of unshakable destiny . and they brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to open up is both possible and extraordinarily difficult . as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” it emphasizes the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a sort of unshakable destiny . in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them on their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memory ; and their old and fresh aspirations .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the united states ’ agenda in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been making up for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal income are taxed . now , with the republican majority in the senate and a republican president in the white house , those plans can provide the basis for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly significant . i believe that it will have a very nuanced effect on business investment , boosting productivity , and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , or in the berlin wall . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of the opposition leaders in germany , failed to see the cold war as primarily a clash between liberty and tyranny . palme , instead , praising east germany 's leader , manuel valls , emphasizing shared goals and a mutual struggle for peace and development . this alliance between the two parties led to severe distortions of basic western values . palme 's main speech alluding to `` détente , '' `` trust , '' and `` friendship '' but never `` freedom . ''
a different type of revolution occurred in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples did not want to be governed once more by the western powers , which japan had defeated so ignominiously . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom , too . for a short while , many prominent individuals – albert einstein , for one – believed that only a world government could ensure global peace . those aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , starting in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , also played a part in the 1945 consensus .
even if confidence genuinely were all that mattered , the us economy would sink . guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who has advocated for deregulation and permitting banks to take on even more leveraging , it should come as no surprise that the administration veered from one policy toward another , each strategy backed by absolute conviction , until the minutes before it was abandoned in another . but the financial crisis is just one of several crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem has been made worse by the failure of sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . those who would spend have n’t had the money , and those with the cash are n’t spending . moreover , what little action was taken has focused on reuniting the financial system .
at the center of a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods offer a particularly powerful danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . it is true but unhelpful , to assert that governments have only themselves to accuse they of having recklessly rushed into this wild ride . the deeper problem lies with the excessively financialization of the global economy that has prevailed since the 1990s . officials confront a simple choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows or are ready to invest a large share of total self-insurance in an accumulation of huge foreign reserves . the political dilemmas that incited rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead .
the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect their nuclear material when it is used or stored , rather than just when it is transported internationally , as is currently the case today . even a relatively small amount of material , such as cobalt-60 , used in radiotherapy , might do away with serious harm if combined with conventional explosives in a call for a dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used by the authorities to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will have the opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework when they convene at the international nuclear security conference : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event that is open for all countries . at the top of the agenda should be the ratification on improvements to the crucial nuclear security apparatus , second to the physical protection of its nuclear material .
this time , the initiative originated in singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , outside new delhi to watch the two countries play a semifinal in a cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political front , however , the two countries were not equally matched . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – sweden , the president , and the army ’s chief of staff – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . gilani sat next to singh to watch this play ; but , ultimately , the process , rather than the protocol , will determine how the bilateral relationship moves ahead .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s ’s ’s right to control all locally discovered viruses ’ information should be protected through the same mechanisms by which the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to ensure poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seed accord , a nation can register plants , share their seeds , and derive their profits from the resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which sometimes enables multiethnic corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous returns from indigenous agriculture . nonetheless , it is dangerous folly to extend this policy to viruses . if the concept of “ viral sovereignty ” applied to hiv just 25 years ago , we would not have a central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these have allowed scientists to test drug and vaccines against any different strains of the virus that causes aids .
from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity in germany grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . since 2001 , unit labor costs have grown faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . this , in turn , requires ramping up investment in innovation and human capital . indeed , in the past decade , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s share of world exports declined from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . the government ’s new challenge will be to undertake reforms that allow italy ’s economic performance to catch up with that of its immediate neighbors , after years of bad policies and little neglect .
but the technical ability , while important , is not the only or even the main issue . policy wonks consider themselves to be as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . conflicting motivations are perhaps an even more prominent reason why citizens are increasingly resentful of experts . informed citizens reasonably fear that a wonk in question might be in thrall to a specific ideology or methodology ; that advice may be politically motivated ; or that consultants can tailor their attorney to their personal career concerns ( how to get that plum job on wall street after leaving the government , for example ) . there is a misconception at work here .
germany thus looks destined to become stuck in the doldrums for a while . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics is increasing , and it may even strip right-wing populists of whom democratic germany has so far been spared . disillusionment with politics is increasing , and may even fashion , right-wing populists , whom democratic germany has so far , remain spared . whichever party combination comes at the top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition must still feature a narrow bloc -- it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on the unlikely backing of its political adversaries .
europe ’s standing as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce and its increasing significance to europe , – the crisis notwithstanding , as a reserve currency , means that the eu , just like america , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . but there is little sign of this opportunity for governments to seize this opportunity . the difference is that america acts decisively , and the eu does not . europe occupies a moral high ground , to which america has mostly vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled , lay the groundwork for a new moral authority .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is well on his way to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , which strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with liberal democracy . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . as hley wrote in opening the go-between : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently there .
such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty . in september 2008 , for example , former polish president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ stopped ecj ! ” he accused the luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of eu member states , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate a few controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where , for some time , there has been considerable disquiet about “ judicial activism ” and what some perceive as an irreversible trend toward emulation by the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings have created a backlash , particularly on the left , with the trade unions and the social movements targeting the court ’s purported fervor in siding with business over workers ’ interests .
at the same time , they need to facilitate workers ’ ability to change jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social-security nets . that means shifting the focus from backward-looking labor-market policies that seek to protect workers in existing jobs , future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms , and active labor-market policies . here , several proposals have already put forward , including universal basic income , currently being piloted in finland and some sub-national – such as ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and the various kinds of portable social security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . moreover , the social contracts based on formal long-term predater-employee relationships will have to be dismantled , with benefits such as retirement and health care being made more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example .
as brig. sir robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ we are not killed faster than they are created . ” the manner in which the us uses military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are behind our opponents in the use of communications – either by recruiting or train – in the us . we are also failing in the use of soft power . in the aftermath of 9/11 , the good deal for us sympathy and understanding the world was for america ’s military response against the taliban .
our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy consumption , and a cleaner natural environment . at the same time , these technologies pay for themselves and embrace them . our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher per unit of energy output , and a cleaner environment . at the same time , sometimes , these technologies pay for themselves and their adoption will take place . but this is not what has happened so far .
at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovation to the classroom . for example , some providers are developing instruction models , in which students can watch teacher-created videos online free of class spaces , so a precious teacher-student confront time may concentrate on interacting rather than lecturing . after all , a lecture from a good teacher , even though it is being posted over the internet , is preferable to time with an untrained adult . as a result , students in places where schools are yet to be built , or too few qualified teachers are available , may still acquire an education . similarly , skilled teachers may now deliver interactive e-lessons to a large number of classrooms at a time , despite hundreds of kilometers away .
already , the obama administration has moved against chinese exports of us tires and us steel pipes ; but this year ’s ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . far from investing heavily in recent years in state-owned corporations and privately-owned “ national champions , ” the chinese government is pursuing precisely that – for example , by ensuring that china profits from market power while leadership controls as much of the spoils as it can . to help such indigenous powerhouses enhance their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of their foreign competitors . in no mood to play the scapegoat , china ’s leaders will use surging national pride to bolster their standing and strengthen their hand in negotiation . when congress takes over the debate over climate change , for example , and some us legislators call a cap-and-trade system , others will demand to know why america should embrace binding emissions-reduction commitments while rejecting the chinese .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may produce sustained supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . so , while central banks may not be willing to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline to achieve this , as they have already done the time , and again , effectively conceding that inflation can stay low for longer . this central bank ’s patience runs risks de-anchoring inflationary expectations a downward target . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risks of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and credit bubbles . otherwise , they would have to sustain for much longer on their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( with the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable .
reaching an agreement on similar scale and influence , world leaders – particularly in the us and china – would need to come under similarly high pressure . one such catalyst might be a financial crisis emanating from a country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve as just as well . a global pact would face urgent necessity , rather than attractive options . what would convince chinese leaders that they must move quickly to reinforce the open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ?
in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , she will have dishonor first , and then defeat . for , though a mostly french majority today may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that they win him re-election in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen reject his ; it is his essence is . winston churchill ’s famous grant of delaying tactics by the british and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . at a time of rising unemployment , with france ruled by anxiety about the future , the french need a reassuring father or a mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen has the right to equal treatment under the law .
in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through gaza or through a set of humanitarian , student , labor , and various visas . with canada alone having stated that it will resettle with 50,000 syrian child refugees earlier this year , it is clear that this goal is achievable . as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to provide adequate affordable housing , food , healthcare , schooling , and job training during the first several years of displacement . millions will end up with protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain how they might return home . at the same time , the international community needs to encourage the integration of refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan .
berkeley – inequality has much to do with the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in the looming national elections . yet , in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( notably among house of lower castes ) are now politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are slipping away .
but unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , with output continuing to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . the key reason for this lag is not simply low demand or large debts . there is a vast gap between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) productivity wages – in germany and the heavily indebted southern netherlands . when the crisis hit , production costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , meaning that greece exported very little and imported very much . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent cell-1 phone call against us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s sanctions crisis , actually amounts to a peace offensive offensive that is offensive to the us peace process . putin ’s ’s gambit is akin to the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt was complicit in a split europe that enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century . most significant , despite a russian army massed against the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens are set to elect a new president , with the best rebuke potential for russian propaganda over our supposed failure to uphold democracy . and yet , as ukrainians work to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us is facing another threat , in the form of a “ peacekeeping offensive ” – that an old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve .
in 1973 , dimona ’s ’s ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading off a reactor that killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war angered whatever faults israel could take from past ones . iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv , with one occurring near hitting dimona . and , while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defense , now surrounding dimona , might be superior to a us patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present an even more convenient challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability in the attack on its missile .
until very recently , investors had hoped that america ’s federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid another recession , as this was what it did on previous occasions . now , they need to recognize that the fed might no longer do . if interest rates were already lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed strain , and long-term bond yields would indeed follow their yield . moreover , the money authorities ’ ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by an unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . with oil , food , and other commodities holdings of commodities , and the renminbi are appreciating somewhat faster , the fed must also worry about us inflation .
and , when she does marry and has children of her own , so that they benefit from two highly educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate a conversation in the home , twice their contacts , and twice the encouragement to succeed . in fact , as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in the newsweek , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into female growth potential . ” the educated , pushy mothers make every difference in their lives . but on the worst of all , forcing frightened , uneducated women to remain home is more socially acceptable than confronting the reality that this means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone . studies show that helping women access trading and grow businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes .
one factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe are the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of america or with other english-speaking former colonies . through the 1990s , british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and more expansionary than that of the eu . in fact , most recently , britain had a strong european voter . the us was the “ other woman , ” undermining britain ’s allegiance to the eu as an attractive , permanent partner . as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make an effective contribution to european reform .
but the battle between pro- and anti- europeans is much masking what actually is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . that question , rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , should be the leading item of deliberation for parties that push for an improved europe for all . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies pursued . but it will also determine whether europe manages to remain the world ’s leading economic power , retains its social model , and safeguard its frameworks of rights and liberties in a world that can not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( albeit an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 saw as a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? americans thought parochial ; they thought america disproportionately influenced its 2000 kilometer border with mexico . then there is the concept of systemic risk , not only in the beholder ’s eye , but might be impossible to predict .
a pivotal proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take “ remedial action ” ” should the eu find large-scale divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which is typically measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative conception . the members of the eurozone ’s southern european members must lower their wage costs to claw back in a competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . concern over such divergences has also reached the task force set by european president herman van rompuy to devise fundamental reforms to the intra-eu economic-policy coordination system .
new york – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans traveled to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , as more people awaken on the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging to defend the country ’s democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait for trump to hope that the trump administration is turned into a lame duck , by the kind of damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump might be impeached or removed from office , under the 25th amendment to the american constitution , if sufficient members of his own government see him incapable of fulfilling the duties of the presidency . the resistance could , in turn , adopt three tactics .
if americans were to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it , with steep gasoline prices , alternative energy sources like ethanol , and alternative forms of transportation – such as leviathan powered automobiles – would become commercially viable . no single measure would do more to make the world a less dangerous place than a large reduction in its oil consumption . and no unified measure would do more to curtail global oil consumption than a sharp rise in the gasoline tax in a country that consumes more than any other country : the us . none of this would happen any time soon . in the short run , americans would need to make modest economic sacrifices to deliver higher fuel prices .
new yorkers are supposedly all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz are sometimes rife . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups , but its real business is the old standby direct-mail marketing and coupons . but groupon is spreading that model to a much broader audience – not so much to a user ’s coupon , but instead of a drug being offered a coupons . in fact , groupon is doing e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use a modern technology to reach their customers . apparently , the model makes a lot of customers ’ sense : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers and aims to $ 150 million by year-end .
in other words , the higher propensity to save in emerging economies , together with investors ’ rising preference for safe assets , has raised money supply worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened insecurity in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived fall in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , for it impedes the capacity of monetary policy to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become the subject of a lively debate . conspicuously absent a debate , however , is the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline in real rates . the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a decline in equilibrium or “ natural ” real interest rates , driven by changes in saving and investment fundamentals .
as enrico moretti of california university at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of job , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for half of the global population in the remotest american metropolitan areas , but they have been about four times less in worse-off regions . in fascinating new research , mit leading david autor and his co-authors have explored the political consequences . they find that american districts , where the economy was hit severely by chinese exports , have responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians , either from the left or the far right . those who do happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their home wealth , and their children ’s fortunes and kin are all highly correlated . by contrast , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide .
in fact , the un commission of inquiry has gathered intelligence to identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated ; but it did not make it any public . the names of those responsible should be made public , either by the commission or by another body created by the un human rights council . the human rights council could act on its own , and the un body should take action . those in order to name are likely to be told and give a chance to refute the findings . unless they fail to respond , or unless their responses are persuasive , their names and the crimes attributed to them should be made public .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the far extreme right cresting in opinion polls . such ingredients , on the whole , might well constitute a recipe for disaster . already , le pen appears set to seem to be backward-looking . “ national unity is pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after being not invited to rally the day after the attacks . but , should center-right leaders rise to the helm , a january 7 attack could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and a political revival .
on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and a shift from output to the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . the non-tradable side , meanwhile , should grow its way . that means boosting capital and human-capital intensity across the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . here , it is innovation , and the conditions that support it – including competition and free entry and market exit – that play an important role . if policymakers choose a model based on a large , state-dominated sector sheltered from internal and external competition , innovation goals are unlikely to be fulfilled , adversely affecting future growth .
then there are those cases when a leader ’s election empowers a leader ’s election as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . consider the cases when elections empower a majority of ethnic or religious groups , which then produces rides over minorities , an outcome seen all too often in the balkans , for example . of course , elections by themselves do n’t make a democracy . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , will give putin another term in office .
what they do share is that their own “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats had made the alternative , no deal at all , far worse . but the iranians are nothing like the nazis , and that there is no country like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to take the lead in beijing in 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency to compare the two sets of negotiations . in greece ’s case , the negotiations propelled the specter of greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe -bound migrant . beyond timing , they have little in common with each other .
integrity looks like an old-fashioned idea , but it comes at the heart of who we are and how we live . if we prohibit drugs in the context of the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat if you do . what if that advantage comes from the use of performance-enhancing drugs ? at a time when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use them anyway to playing field tilts in favor of a cheater . for athletes keen to make a real competitive , threatening that they might defeat a competitor that is not quicker , stronger , or more devoted , but that is taking the drug to its edge is profoundly personal .
this sketch of the crisis highlights how much has changed over the subsequent 20 years . for starters , the crises countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward a sustainable level . more broadly , countries have felt pressure by the imf and the u.s. treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions , which have magnified risk by maintaining pegged exchange rates , all the more problematic in the long run . external powers , meanwhile , compounded the problem . south korea 's admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term “ hot money . "
the renminbi is approaching , but not until the end of 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a world-class international financial center . and , even then , with the renminbi likely to share the international stage with the dollar rather than replace it . the one thing that could precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in america . beyond this , the dollar is n’t going anywhere in the world . it is not to be replaced by the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic challenges of their own .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
if americans reject the us president ’s policies in the polls , america may write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume his rightful place in the world . if american voters endorse these policies , the us will need to live with the world ’s hostility and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . i , together with a number of other wealthy americans , are contributing millions of dollars to the paucity of grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . as part of that effort , i have committed a $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” ( act ) to a cur-roots get-out-face vote operation and $ 2.5 million to a 'moveon.org voter fund , ” a popular internet advocacy group that is airing advertisements to highlight administration ’s misdeeds . the us is deeply troubled by the direction in which the bush administration takes the united states and the world .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban have failed – and almost 30 years since the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation – the kremlin has stepped in to mediate talks between the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building , is capable of mediating , much less underwriting , durable peace agreements . likewise , while russia has not overtaken the u.s. , 20 % of the respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . but , in fact , russia probably has disappointed its supporters in the middle east , not least as its regional peace broker . yet the middle east – a region that has long stemming from its religious , ethnic , political , historic , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ commitment .
and that sum partly reflects the fact that employed people collecting social security and medicare are subject to the payroll tax that they finance . but experience shows that decision to retire or work fewer hours affects the compensation that members of that group receive . moreover , because of the hardest-hit rules that govern welfare benefits , the older worker who pays that payroll tax is likely to receive no extra benefit . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but how much . the payroll tax paid by employee is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same tax ) , and goes beyond the personal income tax .
the eu must forge close cooperation with russian leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . up to now , eu interest in kaliningrad has focused on limiting the visa rights that oblast eu citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the outside of russia . the eu 's enlargement will provide enormous impetus across europe , particularly the baltic region from which so many new eu members will come . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu will increase trade and economic growth , and these might provide the real incentives for making kaliningrad a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just a feared source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu , which takes advantage of a supposedly lax visa regime .
lev artsivich , a tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion is ready when a company needs it . ” one hopes that it ’s right to do just that . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should foot the market with investment . with no nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained – creating a grave problem for advanced and developing countries alike . for now , our future may depend on it .
would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program , with less funding , for any eu country outside the eurozone ? this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s managing director , and yet christine lagarde , the french finance minister , has been named to succeed her spitzenkandidat dominique strauss-kahn following his resignation . furthermore , europeans dominate the fund ’s lead . it is the discomforting conflict of interest that the debtors dominate an international institution that lends to them vast sums . the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that a managing director who made his decision to prop up greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and that at that time barely disgutes his ambition to run for the french presidency , that is before his arrest in new york on rape charges .
so the three problems that europe will confront in the second half of this year are intimately connected . the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through treacherous waters and carry out crucial financial reforms . all in all , just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few new faces , or ideas on the horizon , or on the periphery . all in all , we need to hope for is surprising .
such barriers include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it harder to take punishing and unpredictable working conditions . in many countries , the costs of campaigning are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . overcoming such structural barriers will require a comprehensive strategy to support a woman ’s candidates . one of the most powerful tools is money , but significant . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers that women face in getting their first nominated elected office and running successful campaigns .
powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country . in light of imperfect information about future needs , labor markets are out of balance . these adverse trends date back to about 1980 in the us . this reflects both public-investment shortfalls and information gaps : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like shooting up at a moving destination . the same issues arise everywhere , with differences in outcomes that reflect variability in market flexibility and socio-political choice .
wikipedia ’s boosters have trumpet that as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the legacy of their success , their copyright laws , continues to obstruct attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of thought . but we have been here before – indeed , for most of human history , for most of human history . whereas “ web 1.0 ” has facilitated the stockpiling and transmission of vast amounts of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 , ” supposedly renders entire process interactive , removing the ultimate frontier separating a transmitter and a receiver of information . it was only about 300 years ago that book printers secured royal protection for its commerce in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market .
luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and elsewhere have been making the glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive perks over london : lower property costs , a lower corporate tax rate ( this sounds plausible when claimed with an iranian deft tax , michelin-starred restaurants , and pordealerships – all vital services that created a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised a wry smile or two . so the delegation after a delegation of banco ministers , mayors , and assorted financial-center lobbyists grabbed london of the best hotels and provided a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that high finance a world was his enemy . that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj has now been one of may ’s semi-principal aims .
that line of reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to cornering its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , have noticed that the uk is european ’s weak link ) . but those in iran who claim that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong . iran ’s increasing aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian property in iraq ( which has already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . the dangers now are that iran or its proxies in the middle east will be misread the situation , and crossing a red line . iran was understandably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress in launching instex , the bartering mechanism to enable some european trade , despite american sanctions .
moreover , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to match the bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations . finally , managers , rather than far-right shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . so managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk , and portrays a smooth track record on earnings growth . so , both internal and external auditors are often co-opted . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-poor enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example or excessive reliance on the auditors ’ peer review and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities isolated .
countries in asia – indeed , throughout the developing world – are simply not exporting their plentiful and economically significant genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , has promised an international regime to access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of its own genetic resources . this would give researchers and companies access to the developing world a intellectual-property trove in return for a share of the gains from who are then developed . but brokering the arabs regime has proven elusive , with no international deal having reached diminishing access and thereby declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . this implies potentially massive economic , environmental , and social losses to both developed and developing world .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . a second group , led by china , will stabilize at a lower growth rate than recent historical averages , while perpetuating mature structurally . they will gradually reorient their growth models in order to make them more sustainable , an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake them but not derail . the eu ’s economic advantages will be less unequally distributed than at any time in recent years , though it will still accrue disproportionately to those who are already better off . a third group , led by europe , will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuel social and political disenchantment with some countries , and complicates regional policy choices .
and because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europeans have struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy vis-à-vis iran . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , with respect to 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve the mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the internet of things and the digitalization of entire economies . once again , european companies have borne the cost of such measures . unless the eu can now make its way into an international currency to rival the dollar , europe ’s economy remains highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality .
blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together explain the growth gap with the us . but it is impossible to know the extent to which those factors were influenced by american president barack obama ’s policies . we know even less of the factors responsible for the next 44 % performance gap . in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers are making much of the discovering by blinder and watson that , contrary to their widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents – and thus can not explain the performance differential . so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ?
in this era of crisis and unemployment , the american public might question freer trade . another alternative is for the united states to press the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed in late the bush administration to forge links with some asean members , singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , this could be too difficult politically , with asean subgrouping a more realistic option . this could be constructed to include other open southeast asian economies , malaysia , and thailand – with the eventual goal being an eventual apec-wide arrangement – an impressive achievement if realized through the end of 2011 , when obama ’s turn toward all leaders plays a host .
the trouble is that very few outsiders appear to be listening , far less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . this is particularly true of those policymaking entities , which possess far better tools for addressing the advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . rather than taking advantage of the opportunities afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . as a result , they risk aggravating the potential challenges . in the united states , for the fifth consecutive year in a row , the us congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , much less deal with the economy ’s manufacturing-led growth and employment headwinds .
like high-level managers at publicly traded private-owned firms , policymakers who made the wrong choices should face clawbacks , in the form of reduced pensions . in order to restore fairness , the government ought to follow the lead of the private sector , and link politicians to their pensions to their performance . pensions are a long-standing national commitment and , ultimately , a taxpayer , to an individual politician . meanwhile , just 15 % of private-sector workers – people who presumably rely on government-backed education and infrastructure – get the kinds of fixed-benefit retirement systems that make a cushion of ryan ’s retirement , according to the pension rights center . if politicians take out pensions starting at age 50 as if they are making ryan age , the retirement benefits could realistically be paid out over the next 40-plus years .
pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules through decree , keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . of course , throughout history , the national liberation movements have been forced to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics to reach out to the promised land . this has been true of zionism , of the italian risorgimento , with most recently of catholics in northern ireland . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to count on its security forces , and on the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections are being steadily postponed .
for example , murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for four years before he was released last august . the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizens of lebanese descent , appears to be another of those errors . seized from a cia in macedonia , he has been taken to afghanistan and interrogated for the five months before being released without charge . the leader of the guantánamo task force , rebutted admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners by claiming , “ they ’re every terrorist issue ; they ’re every enemy combatant . ” the cia , however , has made such mistakes already .
the treaty calls a new eu foreign minister , though he is formally denied that the title , all of which is about to call him , with a strong administrative infrastructure on the part of the european commission and the council . a new equilibrium will be struck between the eu and its member states , and a stronger role for the european parliament and national parliaments would come under scrutiny . eu citizens would be crowded out by legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decisions becoming the common norm . the rotating presidency would be replaced by the elected council president . a high price would have to be paid for this treaty .
van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows , ” without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in a society . at the same time , cash usage has plummeted by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now dropping by 10 % a year in the united kingdom , just as barely diverging in germany . the most interesting pieces of “ the future of finance ” worry how to make a difference . one has to hope that the government can respond this question . cash is in decline in many countries , although the rate is different markedly from where it is in place .
because a “ haircut ” can be imposed on only whatever is left of the defaultable private debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . for the same reason , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from markets perspectives . for starters , taking the imf with preferred-creditor status at face value , the imf credit would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used mainly for the service of outstanding bonds . as a result , a group of lucky bondholders would be bailing out those that have become junior to imf debt , and remain highly exposed to a likely restructuring . the second reason that the fund can prevent imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses – market and securitized short-term interest rates – is soaring . indeed , china ’s ’s ’s ’s monetary holdings are relatively plentiful . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with its m2/gdp ratio of some 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us . how did this happen , and what should policymakers do about it ? the trouble , at root , is a structural one .
technologies and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffectual unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s true needs . another problem is that the region ’s education and skills-training programs are not motivated by sufficient systemic thinking . while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these kinds of health challenges , far more is needed . globally , public-health policies are shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration from the engineering , medicine , social and management sciences , from the humanities . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind a global norm .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that winning a republican will be france ’s next president . and , while juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french might reject his fortunate version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker one . from the perspective of his age and profile , he resembles a french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than the conquest of power . i still believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . more telling , he will , in november , be the party primary .
and , perhaps most important , what are optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively for a common european future ? this calls for a smoothly working and a much more efficient interface – between eu agencies and the european commission – that retain overall control over them , as well as a rigorous revision of eu-wide financial regulation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of a framework program are to continue and end ? how can an innovation that is never only technological but social in the eu and its full application ? under the banner of “ simplification , ” the “ “ ” how ” gravitates toward outsourcing of much of the implementation to aaa-rated agencies , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill its particular missions .
despair and alienation has taken hold of a younger generation of arabs , who represent more than 50 % of the region ’s population . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , the war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . america ’s invasion of iraq , with its large number of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths , turning them into inclination to join al qaeda-style “ war ” cells . a american invasion of militancy and the silence of arab public opinion should worry that america and its arab allies , not reassure them , for this means that there is no way for a wider public to channel its interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . indeed , militant islamists , in the hope of recovering from the devastating blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are positioning themselves to capitalize on the looming war with iraq .
a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it does today . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal the close border . yet nord stream 2 would make those troubles unavoidable . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . by committing to buy more russian gas than they need , and for a longer time , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to climb at an alarming pace , despite the threat ( or abdicated ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . and those who should be acting as patients ’ watchdogs are content to go along . but there really is no mystery , either . after its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . instead , pharmaceutical companies pay players across the entire health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs above lower-priced alternatives .
that constitutes not only a tremendous waste of resources , but also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacity . even so , there are many reasons to blame overseas powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others , or even one another , will solve nothing . though the arab world is traditionally conservative , with nearly 70 % of its citizens below the age of 35 with young people suffering the highest unemployment rates in most countries . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future in which a majority of its citizens feel disenfranchised .
since unicef began emphasizing women ’s hiring for their polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female , and more than 62 % of vaccinators are female . let us not forget that the risks these women are taking to protect everyone from a preventable disease that has taken an enormous toll on global health . like polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full eradication in our sights , we might allow polio to return . to ensure that female vaccinators remain to be engaged in this struggle , finding the barriers – whether physical security , social constraints , or low paying – that they confront is vital .
in the us , roughly one-third of the adult population has become impervious to fresh thinking , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google draws the ethicist tristan harris states calls brain hacking . the us has no effective regulatory frameworks for internet platforms , and lacks the political will to create one . a large minority of citizens in the developed world are filtering the bubbles created by such platforms , a digital false reality into which existing beliefs have become more rigid and extreme . western democracies are ill-prepared to deal with this threat .
at a time when american troops were intercepted in iraq , president bush declared that he “ expects them to be treated humanely . ” president bush ’s remarks drove home the significance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in post-war iraq and conduct them . “ if not , ” the president cautioned , “ men who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” american officials recently released a pro-war list that would face trial for past crimes . america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers violations committed even before the current conflict began .
when interpretability is important , for example , in many medical applications , one needs a trained human in the decision-making loop . in these “ black boils , ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is going on , or check whether a stealth bias exists . second , today ’s ’s ’s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition when large-set recognition is provided with large data sets , finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting credit card fraud – but they are far less effective with unorthodox circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or a bit “ noisy ” ” noisy . third , the most recent systems can not explain what they have done or why to be recommending a specific course of action . to manage such cases requires a skilled individual , with his or her own experience , a sense of intuition , and a sense of social consciousness .
a second important area of progress has been reform of the russian ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s federation : the creation of federal districts and the reform of a federation council . such changes are controversial but a federation whose laws are not observed by some of its constituent members can not function effectively ; a federation in which laws ’ observance depends on the whim of local administrators simply can not exist . the country has also advanced the path of fiscal federalism : channeling every value-added tax into the federal budget , and the earned income tax credit on regions makes a sensible system of distributing budget resources among authority ’s tiers . as a result , russia today is a realistic , if imperfect , federation . president putin ’s moves to strengthen the integrated system of power thus make sense and correct .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , have been quick to express anxiety about his arms deals . for israel , this is more than a little concerned . it is possible that trump hopes that support for saudi arabia may help to drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . within israel , many worry that trump is simply trying to appease israel with rhetoric and views saudi arabia as the mainstay of american interests in the region . but , in the view of trump ’s failure to take real stand on any of the core areas of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the idea that he plays some well-thought-out long game on the israel-palestine conflict looks farfetched .
and weaknesses in the london housing market do not seem to have spread elsewhere . indeed , in the northwestern , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward supply . should this trend endure , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk ’s economy . one thing we might be absolutely certain about is that the administration should pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the “ midlands engine , ” too . strengthening housing markets to the north might do wonders to reverse the troubling regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational corporations ( mncs ) have bet on the global economy ’s rules to minimize their tax liability , or even eliminate it altogether . and , for some time now , the independent commission for the reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for a unitary taxation of mncs . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of a unitary tax has been gaining traction . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the third step must be an expanded un research and development program into new , more effective premanagement approaches to controlling the disease . this includes : funding to stop sending maternal aids ; money to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and , with good program design , even funds for antiretroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and medicines provided for the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , more arv therapies can be scaled up to even very poor countries at reasonable prices . the most promising answer for the long run is a prevention vaccine . recent breakthroughs in basic science offer hope that a vaccine can be developed within a decade if the billions of dollars of research and development finance are mobilized by both the public and private sector .
in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence , or both , over their lifetime . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and gender-sensitive policies – policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . but , in the first place , violence against women may well be difficult to detect , and we must avoid it . in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence , or both , over a lifetime . even those aware of it might decide to ignore it , believing that it is none of their businesses , or too widespread , to make a difference , or because they are too busy to have engaged .
earlier this month , new mayors took office without the voting commission ( cse ) to make the public 100 % of the popular vote , an open-ended violation of nicaraguan electoral law . though managua ’s electoral fraud was the most widely documented , a same modus operandi has taken place throughout the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints made by the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse refused to authorize a recount of the ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . the fsln government therefore proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of the 153 municipalities . and , when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence in order to curb them .
moving from one high office in the kremlin to another at the white house ( a seat of the russian parliament ) is nothing short of technicality . even where putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution , the possibility that he endlessly speculate about russia ’s dwindling band for the democrats ’ perceived nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . what makes this work right is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . putin will be czar regardless of what office is formally his own . he has been said that presidential democracy has only strengthened russia ’s political culture ’s inclination to favor the bare-bones rulers , ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s ’s new constitution ( which they have largely written ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? that would be a bad mistake , if only for the time being . morsi ’s timing was noteworthy : a day after winning international reauthorization for his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also revert with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election and calling for an answer within a matter of months .
and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed policymakers like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : the democracy on their behalf was not sufficient . liberalism – protecting minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened . the word “ liberalism , ” though , does not aspire to everyone . in many circles , it has come to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles .
in essence , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all of europe ’s boats . in the event , which populist diverse groups will seize the opportunity ? despite talk of a “ green economy , ” and calling for the europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . in fact , the probability that such reform will sink all boats gives the populists a chance . the dani rodrik has put the appeal of populism into focus .
china is ten times the size of japan , and japan was not easy to come to terms with it , either . the first shock has been intensified by globalization , which has delivered plenty of new , low-wage competition . germany ’s precision instruments and optical facilities , for example , lost their competitive edge when japan entered the games . the second shock has been eu integration , including northern and southern enlargements . while there is a gradual process of globalization , it gained momentum as china decided to play the game .
america ’s worsening fiscal position is leading to a strong dollar , just as america ’s worsening fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago has done . in a dynamic economy where jobs are lost in one sector , the new jobs are created in another . while countries may pride in a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for exports and good for imports . government ’s role is to facilitate labor mobility from one and the other . it is the primary responsibility of government to maintain full employment .
to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it lies at the root of all its outside actions . defending the national interest still the rallies ; exploiting power remains at the heart of their diplomacy calculus . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , upon sovereign freedom of action , on equal terms . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and the pooling of sovereignty is the only ways in which many of the great issues are resolved , from climate change to nuclear proliferation , that predevil our world . but on the big issues of war , peacekeeping , and the balance of power , europe seems stuck between an uncohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries about how to define and secure its national interests .
despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s then-president boris tadic has so far failed to collaborate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic probably can not be traded in serbia ) to testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic premier , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal , paying a price for him with his life . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s core weakness : unlike the nuremberg courts , the international community convened it during , not after , war . without full control of either the evidence , or the allegations , the icty lacked from the beginning of its legitimacy and authority of the “ victors ’ justice . ” the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received an equivalent 46 % of the vote .
for starters , the causes of the global financial meltdown and the ensuing recession have laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets were best placed to shaping societal outcomes . moreover , china , the embodiment of a go-for-growth movement , has signaled a policy shift toward the pursuit of better social and environmental outcomes alongside more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of necessity virtue ; as export-propelled growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach also relies on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy rebalancing of ecology and economy . this shift is linked to the third , broader development : a world ’s increasing understanding of where the planet is headed – particularly with respect to climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized a abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially took away my right even to write the word . now , as part of my work , i often edit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for young south africans , these texts offer life-saving information on gender and reproductive health issues – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . as a medical doctor in south africa , i have delivered abortion services for more than a decade . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – an ngo that i worked for the stop distributing a reproductive-health guide , because it contained south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion .
the election campaign will heat up again , at a time when the u.s. is confronting a daunting set of problems . how should it approach china 's creation of not only facts on the ground but on the ground itself , in the south china sea ? after all , will russia 's annexation of crimea stand indefinitely ? will there be an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ? indeed , how can america react vigorously to russian aggression without forgoing the long project of bringing it closer to the west ?
the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , afghanistan , or syria . today , the international coalition is fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . the us has deprived the group of its perks in the use of it – and the resulting revenues – of its 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has since september , the us has reoccupied 700 square kilometers of territory . the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its own propaganda , occupied half of its senior leadership , squeezed its financing , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel .
when the berlin wall came down in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , brought it down . academics and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a major role in enhancing american soft power . while some of america ’s skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to note that visitors vacuumed up the political idea alongside scientific secrets . many of these scholars had become prominent proponents of human rights and foreign liberalization within the ussr . sadly , bush failed to learn that lesson .
after all , if china is america ’s leading economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? george w bush ’s approach was to view india as the “ anti-china , ” and thereby to counterbalance the world ’s “ greatest democracy , ” against the “ oldest civilization in the world . ” today , a chinese-style , indian-style modernity is psychologically destabilizing japan . forty years ago , japan again represented a “ asian west . ” its aging population watches as a new , younger asia , becomes as relevant for today ’s america during the cold war .
new york – the global recession that is now underway is the outcome not only of a financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future direction in the global economy . with us consumers set to start putting their money in the table after this year has produced a terrifying food-price spike ? should they risk allowing the fed to buy its new car as gasoline prices could soar again ? consumers are pulling back from their homes and automobile purchases not only because they have dealt a blow to their wealth with falling stock and housing prices , but also because they know where to turn . the business investment decisions are even starker , and the central bank is trying to address it .
the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal location for the return of german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . in fact , no trace of polish authority remained . this is one reason why poland is right to insist that opposition camps do not so as to call “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly mentioned them ) . they were german camps in occupied poland , and allied with poland . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal , at times in immensely complicated ways , with local governments if only for tactical reasons .
major suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firm chinese company are found in china , where huawei is now head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , and finished second to japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s top panasonic usage in 2009 . in the telecommunications sector , a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals are now in the global top ten . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors are . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane production with a business-as-usual model that others have imitated .
meanwhile , the bulk of its liabilities are social security and health care , which can not be ballooning . even an american government with a debt duration of around four years would probably not benefit a lot from an inflationary surprise unless it was enormous . what would help is when their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( fixed ) debt-service service . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households might have been worse off , with higher food and fuel prices cutting into disposable income . even for the distressed households that have borrowed for long periods , the effects of higher inflation are precarious .
though it would miss the opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade agreement , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit , it certainly will not pass the chance to ensure that the g20 agenda serves china ’s interests . to be sure , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm barely starting , xi probably has not yet settled on particular priorities . nonetheless , some potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent . elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s own domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . though china ’s leadership of late last month , it is hoped , lack the 2009 drama , chinese president xi jinping would undoubtedly create a sense of his own .
new york – in the wake of the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains sat in the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of a monarchy or church congregated on the right . more than once , emmanuel macron ’s prides himself on being neither right nor the left . many commentators on the french presidential election point out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else . accordingly , the terms of politics “ left ” and “ right . ” marine le pen , whose national front is allied with the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was a minister in the socialist government , is a leftist .
but the verdicts ’ criteria are clear : a new law needs to curb the practices that have undermined the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper function – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially for small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payment system . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction – a sort of tax that goes no public purpose but to fill the banks ’ coffers – will be sharply curtailed . as a result , it is likely that there is a very long time to assess the success of whatever law forcing america ’s congress ultimately acts . we should toast the likely achievements : some form of financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading will move to exchanges and clearing houses from the shadows of a murky “ bespoke ” market ; and some of the worst mortgage-backed practices will still be restricted . but the likely failures are equally inimical : the too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is now worse than it was before the crisis .
to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify themselves as europeans , in contrast to uk citizens who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scotland , or welsh . but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , while germany , owing to its own history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any sort . to be sure , there are plenty of differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . to be sure , most french and german critiques generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . at the same time , the uk is naturally closer to nato than france .
the republicans have proposed continued the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers . by agreeing to cap the current tax rates for just two years , the tax package reduces the projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) of some $ 2 trillion , or nearly 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . though the new tax law is commonly described as a form of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a massive , immediate fiscal contraction . the long-term implications of the deal stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republicans ’ counter-proposal . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers except those with annual incomes over $ 250,000 .
the crisis has also exposed the extent of massive american retail overreach , with estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls would be forced to close . the automobile market rescued in 2009 , at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . but regimes like public subsidies for scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars have simply led many people to reallocate their purchases . reactions to the crisis will be a hastening of the movement toward on-track shopping , in which its physical location is no longer a preeminent part of shopping decisions . oncars spending in automobiles ground to halt until government stimulus programs in many countries revived it .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of the government through a benevolent bureaucracy . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as did obedience within a stratified society . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives the ruler . possessing the people gives it , he uses the territory , gives .
a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is vitally important for regional peace as well . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to meet an american state for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and making them marriage to terror . the most realistic scenario is now a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah , and a second term in parliamentary elections . the only way to extricate syria from a fatal iranian embrace is by drawing it into a regional peace scheme . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , by cutting off hezbollah lines of arms deliveries , while permitting the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan region , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . while the rural population had more than enough to eat , its economic opportunity and upward mobility had been constrained by a shoddy educational system and a docile state-run media that had fed them soap operas and official messages . for a nobody to become somebody ’s , all roads led to bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . thailand ’s farms became increasingly estranged from the urban elite . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that has long prevailed .
by setting an example of coexistence , they can alleviate the alawites in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who participated in a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders , who were forced to flee syria in favor of the revolution . the delegates – joined by a number of sunni opposition members – denounced assad and proclaimed their unwavering support for a united , a democratic country that would offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of the sect or the ethnic background . if alawites and sunnis living abroad may stand united against the assad regime , so might their counterparts in syria . “ depriving the sectarian card regime is crucial for its ouster , ” a conference ’s organizing committee noted .
in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a broad margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % , and russia ’s by 6 % . in july , china announced its plans for the aiib shortly after the ndb articles of agreement was signed in 2014 . while equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did n’t force the matter . meanwhile , brazil and south africa have made no capital contributions to date , despite being labeled “ founding members . ”
well , in both cases , the us ought to have said no : while aid is more transparent , the symbolism of a rich country digging money out from a poor neighbor with millions of suffering citizens is hardly attractive . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand at the us dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has drew broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as america ’s anti-mexico policy has vastly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type character becoming president there , us officials offer positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of disastrous governance . instead of bashing latin america , it takes a show that it can be a steady and principled friend that is not swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind .
a similar solution should be found for a european constitution . europeans , after all , are committed to the idea of democracy worldwide . indeed , the political imperative is as great as constitutional . europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . but in the european way of thinking , we need to spread democracy pacifically , through persuasion rather than arms coercion .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as physicians with special training in forensics , we traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , at a request from his lawyer . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
in any case , the potential for the region ’s us-india security cooperation , while only hinted at trump ’s own speech , has already been discussed by both governments . the implications of trump ’s talking opening speech extend far beyond american policies in afghanistan . trump is reassessing what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , using its vast earnings from exports to america , in order to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also hinted that america will work with india to establish the indo-pacific security belt . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the trump doctrine .
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction , and more . under this order , the rest of the world closed much of america ’s vast technological , educational , and infrastructural gap . yet china now holds a bigger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , albeit still only around one-fourfold of the size of its per capita terms . the share of the world economy represented by the american level has declined by about half ( to around 16 % currently ) . as economists would say , global growth has been convergent , meaning that the poorer countries were catching up .
a focus on corporate social responsibility might help to ensure that the benefits from industrialization are shared , while the power – and the resource-efficiency imperatives – could help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also critical . of course , achieving this goal , not to mention the next sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . indeed , as a report by the international committee on sustainable development finance points out , the financing spectrum for future international development frameworks must be broader rather than ever . given budgetary pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on decline , and this need not be relied upon to fill that need .
to be sure , most taxes impose heavy “ excess burden ” : costs are much larger than those raised , owing to potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a oil tax , on the other hand , does not impose excess burden . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits . for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were once reallocated to the users of oil , they would be unambiguously good . shifts toward a more energy-efficient approach means of transportation ease congestion .
you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin a – and mineral-enriched foods and beverages , or soy foods , plus almost anything with a fn-based health claim . when you routinely buy such foods , you are among lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers – the public-health food industry ’s cherished demographic base . like many people , i thought – with low , innovative companies – that dominated the functioning of functional foods . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ tech foods ” – are those that manufacturers add the omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol , reducers , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable their use of “ skilled ” health claims permitted by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . the sales of lesser-evil and occupational foods have been doing well in recent years , bringing in roughly $ 85 billion in america ’s sales in 2004 .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments manufactured in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . specifically , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically diverse . the common market was defended at the start in terms of the gains that would follow from increased trade . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , did a similar . the common market was defended at the start of the gains that would follow from increased trade .
according to a recent mit study , impact investing in the us would not exist without the support of and partnerships with the federal government via grants , credits , and guarantees . a few existing federal programs , like the commonwealth reinvestment act , and a small-scale corporate-investment corporation , promote the growth of impact investing funds . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and must be an essential feature of any government program . in sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) ; private-sector impact investors fund the upfront costs program ; and government promises a return to them if program ’s targets are met .
their presence indicates that , behind the full parade of martial rhetoric and symbolism , a wider and more complicated china ’s wartime experience is becoming starkly apparent . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp was leading the opposition against japan . foreign assistance , including a prominent american role in spurring china , did not place in this story . china is keen to highlight its role as one of its key allies in combating fascism and imperialism in wwii , and , increasingly , concerning western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . yet ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – about 14 million dead – and of its significant contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese gdp , it also reflects a partisan history of a war that has been taught in china itself .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all they are being made ? yes , the stock market is now at an all-time high , but only in current dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still down 20 % below its january 2000 peak . likewise , whereas the south american homeshiller index on home prices is now up by 10.2 % over the year ending march 2013 , it still remain at 28 % below its 2006 peak . fortunes creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
and they knew what they voted for : each policy that he has implemented thus far was included in his campaign platform . in fact , the socialists began to distinguishing themselves not by what they are , but by what they are n’t , touting the lines , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction might not be as powerful as the socialists might believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . the left is deeply divided on virtually any issues – europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and more – making it extremely difficult to identify what exactly constitutes the “ leftist ” policies nowadays .
there is an even less risk , in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah has recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear to have been populated almost entirely by minority shia , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , and by foreign-construction workers petitioning for higher wages and improved occupational conditions . nor does iran ’s own government seem to be facing very real dangers . syria ’s syrian president bashar al-assad has more domestic backing than the recent media accounts for the unrest in the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s south suggests . the brutal crackdown on post-election protests in 2009 has demonstrated the regime ’s determination to uphold order by any means necessary .
mexico city – the four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , the honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s war . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty reduction , violence , and corruption , and all but forgotten by the international community . now , however , there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects might improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not exactly in the same category that central america has ’s other three . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike them , however , successive governments have erected institutions capable of supporting reasonable levels of territorial and domestic security .
as growth has slowed , public expenditures have fallen , fueling economic insecurity . moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 arab uprisings . even where fiscal adjustment has barely started , the old patterns of rent-seeking distribution have become unaffordable , and the population has turned against regimes that feel unable or unwilling to make a convincing reformist effort . ten governments in the region already have debt/gdp ratios above 75 % , and that . no longer content with merely displacing aging autocrats , the protesters are also targeting key elements of the deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , by contrast , is shedding this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from incorporating its capacity for adjudicating , as the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato commitments , a valid demand – but also to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems . it is also becoming apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported foes .
as we saw in recent crises , private risk taking and debt socialized after a crisis has arrived . so , even as public deficits and debt remain low prior to a crisis , they could climb sharply after one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound suddenly turn out to be insolvent . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stocks and national flows to capture all dangers , including risk weights in the financial system and the real economy , in addition to broader risk-bearing issues . by using 200 quantitative variables and pre-voting factors 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified many countries where investors lacked risks and opportunities .
i have never attended a concert in the manchester arena , but that seems to many remains an excellent venue for the city . abedi ’s barbara barbaric act , on the other hand , killed at least 22 people , many of them young children . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester council and subsequently served as chair of the towns growth commission , which advocated for a “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to link the cities of the british north into a cohesive economic unit . in recent years , i participated strongly in the policy aspects of this big city ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic revival . it was then , i briefly joined at david cameron ’s government to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse .
nile delta – some 60 kilometers from cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising – takes on secondary school students calling “ jails . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile delta ’s village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . “ a great hopes that we now had been dead … . [ we ] never seen a revolution , ” he said a few months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing the jobs . a deformed box of devoted dilapidated classrooms , school pockmarked with age and neglect .
the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies yet another “ lost decade ” of economic activity , and will weaken the island ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating a crisis that all parties are willing to quit . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected fall in actual gnp is highly optimistic , as it relies on a range of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp falls due to each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for the gnp ’s projections to expect that a one-dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit would be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet a ten-year fiscal plan recently approved by the council for the 2017-2026 period – which will inevitably form the basis of debt-restructuring discussions – seems to ignore this lack of circularity . in fact , five flaws in the board ’s fiscal plan stand out .
i suggest that the world ’s open societies are shaped by a dual purpose : fostering both the development of open societies within individual countries and the rise of a global open society . the first involves development aid ; the second , strengthening of international institutions like the international central bank and the world development agency . such an alliance demands the cooperation of not only of governments , but of civil society as well . eliminating this constraint is detrimental to the evolution of open societies into the future .
accra – planned parenthood , a vital source of sex and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to withdraw from the federal title x family-planning program , which supports low - and middle-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration of forbidding title x x clinics from referring patients for abortion campaigns – will cost planned parenthood some $ 60 million annually . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges for us interests elsewhere in the world .
in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at 45 % in just six years after its war ended . yet post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given these failings , it should not be surprising that employment policies ’ ’ net effects are often very little relative to the magnitude of the problem . employment policies , for example , have done little to reduce entrenched regional imbalances and discrimination within the regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war there in the 1990s .
japan will make even greater efforts to fight poverty , which also serves as a violence hotbed and provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to all in the world . in this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values like freedom , democracy and human rights as unsound values , and , by working hand with countries that share such values , hoist the flag of a “ proactive contribution to peace , ” and contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before . the us will strengthen aid to developing countries and lead the world toward continued prosperity . we will install in our hearts the history of the past , when japan ended up as a challenger to the international order . prosperity is , by and large , a foundation of peace .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and taking participation . though they account for only 20 % of saudi arabia ’s total population , they comprise a majority of -75 % – sunni residents in the oil-rich region . this systematic neutering of shia within saudi arabia is legitimated by the wahhabi religious establishment , and supported by multiple fatwas denouncing them as heresy . in bahrain , the shia , who make up 75 % of the population , have been keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered from discrimination in occupations : in the military , high cabinet positions , a diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , in the oil sector , where they have been ousted since the late 1980 ’s .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral medicines ( tb ) . then , by working with nearly 100 additional countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver on the sdgs . in the process , deaths from aids fell by more than 50 % from their peak , with malaria deaths down by some 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new financing to continue this work . replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer number of lives that it will help to save .
the right-centrist parties – the union of center-right forces and yabloko – do have such a vision , and the people are well known . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have walked their hands of in politics . in fact , this is the sort of political depression of their own making . the higher one ’s education looks set to lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the percentage of people with a higher education is twice that of those without a higher education . depression can be cured , but only by giving a patient a positive vision of the future .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as certain forms of western neo-imperialism . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or stronger alliances like nato . augmenting us and british troops , with other “ western ” forces , even at this late stage , would not , especially at this stage , alter the crucial perception of that intervention , with the possible exception of and beyond that of the arab world , demands . this last point has been at the heart of the underlying problems in iraq . only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can ensure the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for apparent self-defense – demands .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first gave birth , when the younger had more children . when we estimated how much observed the variation among individuals could possibly be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % variation in explaining cultural and individual choices . but genes are just one of many factors affecting height and age at first birth . personal decisions , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all enter the mix .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to step up as many unifying symbols as they could . instead , they have allowed one of post-world war ii european integration ’s jewels , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat as well . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives about 10,000 petitions annually . ) unlike the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , far too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought help for them , far more than can expect a reasoned decision .
as security expert sarah chayes argues in opposition to corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice . in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may appear to serve vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to battle terror ; another provides critical energy supply or access to raw materials . to identify the best approach in any concrete way , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data collection . leaders must inevitably contend with tough tradeoffs .
they may be considered alternative forms of taxation , however implicit rather than explicit . voluntarily or not , some may push for recourse to inflation or to administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings into financing the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) or , in the end , toward outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies have thus been applied in past debt crises . in the end , they are variety methods to force current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . indeed , is it preferable to full adjust ?
in the aftermath of the september 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ this is just not me . ” but one has to be wary of visions . sometimes leaders think that vision can tackle most of their problems , but a wrong vision – or an over-ambitious vision – can do the harm . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted by ) for failing to have what he called “ a vision thing . ”
and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energies as a potentially lucrative enterprise . in the us , wind energy costs have fallen two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar power costs have declined by more than 85 % . moreover , according to the american energy supply report ’s recently released last report , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries has grown by a factor of 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has embraced the fostering climate-minded innovations . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from his own climate commitments .
china ’s potentially powerful domestic-demand base and high room for policy maneuvers can help it avoid a hard landing . it has already aggressively provisioned monetary policy and may employ further fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector and local governments could undermine pro-growth efforts . moreover , if conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could become more severely affected . already , spillovers from trade and financial-disclosure channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 , averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a substantial slowdown , with india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate expected drop to about 6 % this year .
in the five years after japan , for example , reached that level , its economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in hong kong , it has slowed to a rate of just 5.8 % . in south korea , growth slumped to about 4.8 % , on average . using the historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison shows how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of export-led economic growth after their per capita gdp reached roughly $ 11,000 in the purchasing-power-parity terms relative to permanent dollar prices in the us , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 american dollar prices . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime later this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will fall well short of 7 % .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . contrary to the trump administration , obama and his advisers believe that there is much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths , even as doing so points to a radical change in course . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens there in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s celebrated cairo speech “ a new beginning , ” is that it included a public admission to the united nations ’ past missteps in the region .
preventing small countries – as well as anyone else – from competing for particular vacant seats reduces the ecb ’s potentially competency . some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries . giving large countries permanent seats on the ecb board also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through its appointments process . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to a board in an open competition system than it is under its current scheme . the last thing the ecb needs is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder , who says lord issing a key post .
but labor costs rose much faster in the south , the result of differential cost increases that can not be handled through a devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . in this context , productivity growth whether through technical progress , better resource allocation , or productive investment – is just as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint is . indeed , over-wage deflation is likely to have negative effects on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more rapidly and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not properly correlated with investment , innovation , or labor mobility . as long as this internal divergence persists , it is impossible to resolve the euro crisis , because current-account deficits and/or sluggish growth will continue to stalk southern european countries perpetuating sovereign-debt worries and commercial banks .
indeed , key elements of modern british identity all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . former prime minister john major has called the uk “ “ “ “ the country of the long shadows ” on cricket grounds , warm drinking grounds , invincible green suburbs , dog mistreers , and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling toward the holy communion through the 1600th of the think but what it really described was england . an institution called english-speaking heritage curates the past , from the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old lands that are celebrated in televised costume dramas . likewise , the established or the state church of england was the church of england , created nearly $ 500 years ago , when martin viii opined that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriages . to be sure , this does not mean that there is no single identity to be asserted .
both abe and obama are focused on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard and in support of his us allies . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution , ” which abe pledged – thereby enabling japan ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack , and help from the us and other us allies in meeting their pledges to secure asia ’s peace – has long been overdue . that stance makes an alliance far more an equals partnership than it has been over the last six decades . that bold policy initiative , in the face of the japanese public ’s deep ingrained skepticism toward any heightened military risk exposure to – has no doubt endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , as well as ensured both open and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is especially noteworthy now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
the matter with who preoccupy the presidency during this transition is surely not inconsequential . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . with khamenei having served as president before rising to iran ’s highest political and religious leadership status , it is easy to see that raisi ’s conservative candidate , having already elected , has become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged the probability that his successor should be named in the near future has been “ not low . ” iran is at a pivotal moment in its history , and as citizens ’ long lines of willingness to cast their vote have made clear , iranians know this .
moreover , north korea ’s ’s ’s evolving development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a nation are spewing deep anxiety among its neighbors . but this lack of quick success does not thwart these efforts . the recent trilateral summit by china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , alongside meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . unfortunately , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have yet to take any meaningful breakthrough on the most sensitive security challenges that divide them . still , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them .
for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served the two countries well , in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . yet here the past should not be viewed as an prologue of it . and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports , the walmart effect – which enables them to water down their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . a seismic shift is beside the point , and america ’s recent fiscal unfolding may well represent a tipping point . in fact , china has made the conscious strategic choice to alter its growth strategy .
with the current core inflation rate more than 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer run ( as measured by a five-year five-year-forward inflation forecast ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds should exceed 4 % . other long-term bonds , both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer similar declines . other long-term bonds , both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer similar declines . reaching yield has also narrowed credit spreads between higher-grade bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . with the current inflation rate of more than 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by a five-year five-year-forward rate of inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year treasury bonds should exceed 4 % .
without that trust , credit would not flow , and economic activity would wither . moreover , because financial institutions ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , the credit shortage aggravates their need to deleverage . because raising capital becomes difficult and expensive , they deleverage by lending much less . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes beyond its subdued credit supply . falling employment lowers wages and wages , increasing output .
cambridge – have those who pushed for deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? have a change of heart been expected , or just a strategy change ? enabling america to sell its risky financial products , and to engage in speculation all over the world might have served its firms well , even if imposing large costs on others . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and used to serve some of the same interests . or will they simply push through cosmetic reforms – the bare minimum required to justify the $ mega-trillion dollar bailouts ?
and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point plunge in unemployment are bolstering consumption , the recovery is broadening to other sectors . what has driven this growth , by contrast , is a broad range of factors . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness in a way that is boosting exports . in short , the credibility that ireland has gained through resolute fiscal policies and reform helped to restore confidence , facilitating a return to growth , and hence fiscal consolidation . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country may not be imitated elsewhere .
because this scheme would imply losses for the bondholders , there is a need for substantial official muscle and peer pressure . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of the eventual write-down actually add to a superior outcome . thus , under this model , and despite initial pressures – the bondholders ’ behavior might be considered genuinely voluntary . and , while ratings agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as default , the case for talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification is needed . a third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , acquire binding pre-commitments , and exclude free riders .
as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good in a narrow set of skill or product structures , and exchange them for millions of extra things we have little clue how to do or make ourselves . this observation is as true about an individual as it refers to a place , be it to be that the eu is a neighborhood , a city , a state , or a province , or a country . as a result , we end up doing spectacularly few things , and buy everything else from others . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money merely charts the value of the gifts we are giving one another . every town has grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters to serve local communities .
another consortium has started to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines , from azerbaijan via georgian and turkey and the west . but these investments have , in turn , brought no economic trickle down . oil and gas pipelines are transport conduits , not true employers . in addition , georgian reimbursement for providing the azeri oil strategic export route was not dollars but a diplomatic insurance policy – that is , western governments , in particular , worry about the safety of their pipelines . nowadays , people survive on a few dollars per day .
even in hong kong , where shares recently hit new highs , only about 10 % is above its peak in early 1994 . policymakers warn about the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” in the same three year , prices in wall street , and europe have skyrocketed by 60 % or more . even in hong kong , where shares recently hit new highs , they are just 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . policymakers warn about the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ”
robust central institutions , accountable to a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . national banking systems should be unified to separate private-sector losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authority , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme , forming the core of a european banking union . germany ’s reluctance to lead on such issues partly reflects its historic inhibitions , which are always hard to overcome . in the shorter term , the single market should be expanded to service , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally and/or multilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . austerity should be eased , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small - and medium-size firms in the over-indebted countries .
china ’s insolent prosperity , though far from being distributed equally , reflects china ’s relative political stability , even as the regime ’s opening remains strictly limited , are both undeniable and deserving of respect . just consider the massive access to the education of its vast rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” india today . china , which just celebrated at the time of the martial pomp of the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s republic of ” , represents one of the most interesting cases of a nation evincing “ short-sightedness ” over its history . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn apart by internal and external wars , wants to become the world ’s second most powerful economy . for its part , china has much to show in its recent history .
all things considered that an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the outset , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates in accordance with domestic economic conditions . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably require from a young sovereigns like scotland might be minimized by issuing debt in sterling , thereby insulating investors from additional devaluation risk . by permitting exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that emerge in a currency union : the undervaluation that produces inflationary pressure and the overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits brought by the central-bank operations that typically benefit a member treasury ) . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in distress .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to exceed 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia ’s gdp . while the transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s military epidemic of corruption caused more political damage than the economic side effect of reform . the government , and therefore economic reform , will pay for this neglect at the polls . for its part , corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world , setting the stage for economic development . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering enabled the opponents of putin ’s kremlin to say that the “ mafia ” grabbing the gains of economic change .
though he does not sacrifice major moral principles to power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer with whom he once was . he crams his mediocrities party , selects mostly bad consultants , and does not obey the precious good ones . he is neither corrupt nor war criminal , neither aggressive in his utterance and behavior nor likely to bend the law to personal power . it is possible that his depiction as a right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who wants serbia to recover its pre-wwii monarchy and the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life . many people voted by doing so by default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 .
they will allow for themselves to become intoxicated with the eyes of the luminaries and the experts of la france d’en haut ( the elite france ) seeming to eat away from hand and hang onto its every word . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to prevail over a genuine fraternity and elect wrecking over reforming , they will deliver only chaos , not improvement , to the lives of humble and vulnerable . at the same time , they will careen off in the darkest side of the political night , and end up in the dustbin of history , where they can rub elbows with those other yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; the will be corrected or a encouragement to destroy . or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure they are seeing on television .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish business failures in iran ? according to vice president iranian-turkish doing business council vice president , “ it is extremely complicated for business in iran . ” others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it is like if iranians favor a win/lose outcome to a win/win ” in their work dealings with foreign partners . still others accuse america ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” which can worry that iran and turkey could become too powerful .
essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancers , and respiratory ailments also are significantly less affordable and proportionally more expensive for low – and middle-income countries than they are to those in the rich world . this gap has prompted the lancet ’s medical journal to call the ncd crisis the “ issue of social justice of our time . ” smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to develop effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are in desperate need . moreover , we need to invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and the diagnostic tools fit for low-resource settings . for its part , diabetes is not a unique among ncds ; it is also possible that we will have the biggest health-care targets .
but an international organization should be judged on the quality of the information and advice it provides , not by whether governments are listening . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores a purpose : give incentives for – and easier – reform by reporting officials about its costs and benefits . in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid in order to expanding health-care coverage to carry a cap-and-trade scheme . south orange , new jersey , should make any recommendations regarding how to improve a country ’s own economy , and the country adopted fewer than half of them , the organization might look like a failure . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases the issue of economic survey by each of its 34 member countries , including a list of prior recommendations and implementation status .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliance with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe in the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . most important , he will need to secure the north korean regime at least to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and to agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in the next summit . moreover , he will need to keep all of the alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable in the context of the inter-korean dialogue . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection might prove to be the toughest challenge yet . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask some whether it ’s any better than a joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he described has “ the worst bargain ever . ”
germany ’s upcoming government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , perhaps along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of german leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp poised not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . an exit of the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” could mean the end of political stagnation not just in germany , but at the european level , too . another way of looking at germany ’s electoral outcome , then , is as an opportunity for renewed beginning .
prague – last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable flight from dictatorship . eliminating fuel subsidies incited riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that offered a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . it would take six long years under a rapacious military rule , before nigeria received another chance at democracy . the timing could not have been worse , at least for many years , if not longer . indeed , after the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler , general fayabacha , who abruptly dropped dead , his military sullenly agreed to another national election .
instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in the lives of women , the integrated nature of women ’s ’s ’s health , and its impact on communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . such barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . for example , to reduce maternal mortality , not enough can provide antenatal attention , secure delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to the safe , judicial , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
to meet the challenge of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be underpinned by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , states that modernizing the armed forces are intrinsically linked to national development . hence , it emphasizes the need to bolster the domestic defense industry . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the iran nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity is increasing its stake in a security-sector characterized by rising competition for access or control , from natural resources .
but the real promise for both china and india lies with the future . a country of soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , the appeal of its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . large expatriate communities in the u.s. , 2.4 million china , and 1.7 million brazilians , have increased their interest in their home country among other americans . yang ming , a chinese star of the national basketball association of ’s houston rockets , could become another michelle jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . moreover , the transnational connection in the information-technology industry comes close as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time service .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to withhold full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died for the eu in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that he was cunning , force , and intimidation may win a western revocation in his subjugation of ukraine and the theft of crimea . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , has instead merely whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members have an interest in securing russian gas supplies during the winter will cause them to forget their european security interests – a classical divide-and-rule strategy that has served germany . europeans can not afford that they must take on this . ukraine may already be passing only through the storm ’s eye .
we should ask , for example , whether it makes any sense for them to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or that some degree of powers and finance should instead be decentralized to the regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and the oversight of farming , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to the appropriate regional bodies such as the scottish parliament , welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local bodies – should be delegated to appropriate regional bodies , such as the scottish parliament , welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local bodies . such a radical change – and , to match the scale of the crisis – will have to be radical , requiring a nationwide debate that could be conducted via a people ’s constitutional convention . to this end , a re-timeframe to integrate regional interests , and to recognize that the uk is a multi-national state . that convention should begin by examining brexit ’s impact on regions .
the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful tool in turning the candidate countries into open societies . as a result , the us no longer has the wherewithal to set the world ’s agenda . but it can set an example , both within and outside its own borders . though most of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example . the eu can not possibly take the place of the us as a world leader .
like his old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glory . this is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 cold war games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth considering that russia won the most good medals . ( it was russia that did act during the sochi olympics shaping the heart of the doping scandal . ) this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for any military glory . to be sure , putin regards the olympics and specifically with the medal tally .
perhaps the true pragmatism on display in the case of north korea is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and an internal fixation . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly tough time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly its historic friend and ally . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments in our time . perhaps the true pragmatism on display in the case of north korea is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and an internal fixation . china ’s leaders have a longstanding reluctance to take part in international sanctions that is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by or not working .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of brent crude since late june has grabbing headlines worldwide , producing many conflicting explanations . in fact , some attribute the fall largely to falling global growth expectations . others focus on propping up america ’s export of oil and gas . still others suspect the tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states that focuses on , among other things , weakening political rivals like russia and iran . whatever the reason for the price drop – likely to be detected in some combination of these factors – the consequences are identical .
new york – the global oil situation at that time seems especially interesting . the previously fashionable view that america ’s seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec , sending plummeting oil prices turned out to be nonsense . even with improved security , it will take just five years for iraqi oil to get it off fully on stream . at about $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain high , even though a soft global economy means that world demand remains low . with the american economy now recovering strongly , oil prices should stay high or even rise further in the foreseeable future .
as with its predecessor , the ecb ’s securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit but not the letter , of the european treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has little precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash , witnessing the visceral reaction of germany ’s press to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . after all , provided that markets actually believed that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run out of the participating countries on the first sign that conditionality had not been fulfilled . but trts also operate well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire , rather than taking a deal over who owned the water and what its cost should be . the omt program will cause credits conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the eurozone ’s financial balkanization that has occurred for the last three years . reversal of this process will probably not appear until the three key feature of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within a very tangible grasp .
to enable individuals to prepare to cover associated deductibles and copayments , the health savings accounts – funds that are not subject to pay-for-to-deposit income tax – and can be used tax-free at all times to cover qualified health-care spending – should be scaled up and strengthened . so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social security and medicare reforms that avoid a high cost on middle-income americans and a later debt burden on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas . for starters , bipartisan benefit proposals for loan-to-value support , with seniors accepting subsidies to buy private health insurance , should be implemented . ratings support can significantly reduce medicare spending , because it establishes a framework for more efficient benefit spending , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off big . in the 1960 's , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where the people walked for work , would become a modern metropolises surrounded by serious american-style suburbs . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state 's lavish television monopoly would not survive and jump-started what has become italy 's leading , more privately owned media group . so his fortune started in real-estate development , which took place in many years . but one does not win in tv and the real-estate business without proper political connections .
beijing – financial repression , government policies that create an environment of low or even negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for government spending , has long been a key feature of chinese economic policy . but , with financing costs for business trending up , this is finally beginning to change . early this year , the national council , china ’s cabinet , made lowering funding costs for companies , particularly small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in a prudent monetary loosening that includes freeing up more funds for bank lending that allocate a certain share of their total borrowing portfolio to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . at the same time , the pboc , through its “ pledged additional lending ” program , has launched lending directly to banks that pledge to deploy capital funds for social-housing construction .
moscow : the countries with the greatest cause of concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not to offer nato membership . but nato enlargement is not likely to make russia 's foreign policy more peaceful an forever . indeed , russian democrats with immense stakes in a peaceful future are adamant that expanding the alliance 's membership for central europe will isolate their country from europe , enhancing russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and that by appearing to threaten russia , offer a rallying point for reconstructing russia 's military power . moreover , today russia is much too weak to threaten them , as the russian army 's catastrophic misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . someday , russia will become stronger , and if expansion of nato to central europe has discouraged a revival of imperial foreign policy then in its favor of doing so .
it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will each depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors , who judge it solely by virtue of their own national interests . but that would presume a slight gesture toward palestinians , whom israelis regard them as so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . israel may be europe , ” ” and its principal ally , may well remain the united states for many years to come ; but israeli leaders need to start thinking about how their countries can flourish in a post-western world . israel ’s leaders seem intent on gaining time both tactically , by resisting the soft constraint of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly influential role . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence the major powers .
the performer explains that deficits are all that congress ’s fault of not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to ratchet up the budget deficit because “ where congress can n’t spend money it did n’t have . ” the ultimate trick , then , is , to starve the beast , the ” typically comes later , if and when the president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do n’t trump reality . this trick , of course , never works . he can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk has vanished with the conjurer the sleeve ) ; the acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario got passed ) ; and tax revenue has n’t grown ( no rabbit in laffer ) . the audience is now told that losing us tax revenue and damaging the budget deficit are all along .
march 21 is the first spring day , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections herald a fresh spring for the european project . on one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is a european flag . this is why in january , one of us launched the idea that , beginning on march 21 , we display a flag on our homes , factories , and offices . march 21 also marks the anniversary of benedict ’s death , the patron of saint of europe .
according to the global terrorism index 2018 , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since 2014 . this fits a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators of muslim kin are immediately classified as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in their well-resourced and systemic manner , while violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated as an isolated incident . yet there is nothing isolated from such incidents , either . in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than islamists . the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the rare survivors .
the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is a waning memory , because germany has so far delivered a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popularity . the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included europe ’s single currency . indisputably the strongest and most dependable of the 28 member countries , it lacks a vision on where a beleaguered europe should be heading . after its birth in 1999 , when the german government , by now relocating in bonn to berlin , contented itself with a lower european profile . that modest , unassuming role belongs firmly in the past , even though german power has still been matched by fantasies .
whereas the rest of the world is battling to boost savings , china , with a saving rate of more than 40 % , struggles to get its people to consume more . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive , china needs to stimulate consumption . so china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , the ” providing cash to help to finance america ’s huge american fiscal and trade deficits , permitting americans to buy more dollar goods than they are selling . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s war on iraq , just as a massive tax cut for the richest people in the world ’s richest country , while enormous need at home suggests ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . providing improved social services ( public health care , education , and indigenous retirement programs ) would minimize the need for a “ precautionary saving . ”
selling five-rupee sachets from shampoo to poor consumers are seen as smart marketing , yet lending 5,000 rupees to starving the peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . both activities , after all , finance from investors searching for returns on their capital and motivated more by profits than by compassion . but one obviously is less socially acceptable than another . a high salary , earned by the cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer , pays little attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending for the poor , seems unwarranted , if not immoral , . yet pmfis have made a success by gathering a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some demanding complex cognitive abilities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced expert expectations ; unsurprisingly , its potential adverse effects on both the quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for the lost manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the potential technological displacement of labor by workers is “ not even on the [ us ] radar screen . ” among economists , though , a broad consensus is that roughly a 80 % loss in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades was the result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a far second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan was seemingly unable to do no wrong in the economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic through a wide range of high-tech accuracy and the massachusetts institute of manufacturing tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since the reconstruction began after world war ii , had vastly outperformed european economies ’ expected growth . and they also saw an economy that , having grown considerably faster than north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide levels . a safe bet back at the end of the 1980 ’s seemed that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would proceed .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war is really two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in “ arab palestine ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war to an independent state worthy of name . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : the just war to defend its right to exist ; accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east ; and the ill-fated and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and of jewish settlements located there . there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza strip , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders of the old , divided jerusalem . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased by only a few of the 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers in the gaza strip alone , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of an impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest population denmark . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial .
meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers from a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more visible . the market ’s reactions have been to send spanish government bond rates up even higher . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive in the past year . but , by doing so , they have lost their touch , too . like aging magicians , they are still engaged in tricks that used to impress , but that do not deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historic tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration considered ways to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a containment policy . by rejecting that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliances , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton opted for a policy of the so-called “ integrate and insures . ” but there are the levers that can help .
trump , for example , undeniably succeeded in persuading some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . but that identity – and the manner in which its adherents frame their interests – could change course again . farage has not added brexit all by themselves . interests and identities have become dynamically shaped as politicians make offers of representation and citizens react . the image of a irresistible populist “ wave ” has always been misleading .
the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will allow pharmaceutical companies to evolve into the societies offering a wide array of health-care solutions . these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies to support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ neutraceuticals ” cuticals , ” as well as other “ wellness options . ” while the size of many r & d organizations is bound to be scaled up through such reform , the complexities of governance , and maximizing the impact of this outside web of relationships , will demand novel skills and capabilities over and over those of excellent science . they will facilitate interactions across their networks , in order to spur the emergence of innovations ecosystems . developing and rewarding employees hosting such skills will be additional but welcome .
the point is not “ to reach a consensus around which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to work out which a model applies best in the given setting . and doing that will always remain a craft , not a science , especially when the choice must be made in real-time . economics is not the type of science , in which there could ever be one true model that works best in every country . the social world is different from the physical world because it is man-made and hence almost infinitely malleable . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically , not by replacing old models with better-off ones , but by expanding its own library , with every shedding of a different social contingency .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya pointed out , excessive labor-market regulation is preventing indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled laborers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , and he argues , the indian government should redouble its reform efforts across the region . equally important , indian workers – especially the young – need opportunities to upgrade their capacity for continuous progress . india ’s structural transformation , and its sustainable growth model , hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market centered on easing outdated and complicated employment laws . the legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those in most developed countries , as well as in china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of workers increases . today , the agriculture sector accounts for just over one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india .
equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese funding , credits , and investor insurance . notwithstanding considerable political uncertainty in many countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s ’s ’s ’s reform efforts with change of its own . brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s government , for example , has been promoting a “ “ investment partnership program ” to coordinate investment in the country ’s finance and transportation infrastructure sectors . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors such as logistics , electricity , and information-technology systems , thereby fostering interactions among business , community , and government leaders . taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given the accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing . in the end , the composition of gdp will , in fact , provide a acid test of whether china has succeeded . but a key word here is “ the end of ” thinking . for the time being , it is far more important to examine trends in potential determinants of chinese consumption . it is far too soon to expect profound shifts in the major sources of aggregate demand .
europe , meanwhile , has been moving in exactly the opposite direction . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a job threat ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism . european multinationals also hold large stakes in the chinese economy ; eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets are now nearly double those of the us . to be sure , trump ’s us presidency grants trump substantial power to shape us trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based american support for returning borders .
at the time that he takes up the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin , to the tune of $ 19 million . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , previously maintained a $ 10 million annual us appropriations contract with manafort . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known for his business to deal gently with those who had displease him . manafort also offered to the brief deripaska about what was happening during the trump campaign . after taking the job , manafort flocking a ukraine-based worker , “ on how are the us to use [ that ] make it whole ? ”
kyiv – from snowy kyiv , i have watched successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to pride in their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , like someone who led the peace revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism because regime change is only the first step in establishing a multi-party democracy . indeed , like my country , ukraine , is now demonstrating , after the revolutionary euphoria fades and normality returns , democratic revolutions may be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lesson for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections are not a democracy makes .
protection against theft is obvious : what use is a phone , a car , or a ticket that just happen to work for its rightful owner ? that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics , the multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and the face ) , affecting more than one billion indians . above all , biometrics can protect the theft of our identities . nandan nilekani , chairman of infosys who left his job to establish a system known as aadhaar , credits it with the savings with the indian government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and fake identity in government recipients lists . increasingly , we use our fingerprints , or our face to unlock our smartphones , paying for their purchases , and board airplanes .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , in a moment of great alarm about the unfolding global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders gathered for a historic london summit . their collective pledges to spur , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves worldwide . many of the challenges that spurred the london summit remain real . anxieties levels may have risen , in boardrooms and stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues . the un and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of the great economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world over a long time .
was we to be reminded of someone who has the intimate knowledge of the catastrophes so far ? or was she just the most beautiful girl in the party – the one an avid adolescent asked to dance , and then held on tightly ? the first is the sovereign people who poured into the streets of every huge city in the country with the knowledge that , in terms of the total votes , it is they , not trump , who won the election . just as the outside world is currently writing a new novel novel . roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , and we talked about forces that might stand a dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump .
and it is not as though congressional republicans think that they owe enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either the chamber of deputies . they have reassured me that simpson has , indeed , a change of heart ; that he is a clever man with a sophisticated grasp of issues ; that he can sway reporters and gets them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( even though he may not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he is a genuine asset for the commission ’s substantive job . maybe simpson does have a change of heart ; that he does . maybe he traveled his own highway to damascus , come face-to-face with what he used and whom he was , redoes , and wants to redress some of the damage that has been done to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that it produces . even in that case , though , however , naming those who wrongly behave to important high-trust positions and condoning them as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation a lousy incentives .
however , the largest tfr declines in recent years have been in developing countries . what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average number of live births per woman over its lifetime . in the long run , a population is said to be stable when the tfr is at its replacement rate – a little above 2.3 for the world as a whole and , somewhat lower , to be , at 2.1 in the developed world – reflecting its lower infant-mortality rate . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels . the oecd average stands at about 1.74 , but several countries , including germany and japan , produce less than 1.4 children per woman .
one is the market-creating and market-rising role illustrated by the gsm of the standard . indeed , the global reach of regulatory has implied enormous economies of scale in the basket of handsets and network hardware , so that prices have fallen precipitously , and interoperability between networks and across countries have been far easier to achieve . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were left on the basis of gsm services worldwide . contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably wrong for business , there are three significant channels through which regulation can profit an economy . many regulations are playing this standard-setting role .
laguna beach – when i ponder the prospects for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the means that the world collectively has imposed a tremendous bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , avoidance of policy blunders , and preventing market crashes . the first component of a bet – more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . indeed , it also foresees china ’s annual gdp growth rate to stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby allowing the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to be reemployed progressively , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift away from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and toward private investment . another , more precarious assumption , underpinning a bet on more inclusive growth , is that both the eurozone and japan will flee the mire of low growth and avoid deflation – which , by impelling households and firms to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unhappy reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging might prove exceedingly risky for both current and future generations .
many worried that a clinton impeachment would damage the presidency , but its primary impact on presidential power had the opposite effect . in the end , republicans agreed with the democrats ’ accountability for that debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent counsel whose investigation of clinton ’s scuttle dealings years earlier headed him to lewinsky . clinton ’s popular popularity rose following the end of the impeachment proceedings . a majority of americans believed that impeachment was a mistake , and this was long overdue . the two parties allowed the statute of independent counsel reclamation , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the united kingdom independence party ( ukip ) , who rally behind the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders have long been trying to salvage its own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu by blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . though establishment parties were being criticized by the eu , for the most part not losing sight of the benefits of eu membership . but that merely put ideas for alternative policies out of reach , while causing voters to rally opposition directly against the eu itself . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , the two major parties backed the uk ’s “ remain ” campaign , even though it was internally split .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . weakening developing-economy incomes further is the global demand slowdown and the commodities crash that nobel laureate angus deaton has shown to be disastrous for much of the developing world . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging assistance player , ” is now mired in economic and political crises , as is south africa . these challenges are being compounded by new financial regulations in advanced countries hampering investment and finance flows to the developing world . to cap this everyone ’s , expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability .
though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breach , and the government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about the future . in the event of a regime collapse – a distinct possibility – it would be difficult to avoid the diversion of its assets , or even the use of its weapons . for its part , iran looks relatively stable , at least compared to its own neighbors . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihadi insurgency , which has previously attacked military bases suspected of soaking up housing nuclear assets . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern .
but this was not a us-iran deal ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the un . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will , through extraterritorial measures , on – say , using access to the dollar clearing system as a foreign-policy tool – conflates coordinated action . for the uk in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on in american foreign policy in ways that some devotees of our “ special relationship ” would find uncomfortable . as for climate change , the choices made by the man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business are obviously bad news . but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be maintained .
this would make the resurgence of reform-oriented leadership in iran extremely difficult . ironically , under a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by the conservatives and their hardliners , actually fits the region better than the current one . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners , with little appetite for de-escalating regional conflicts . the most likely scenario , of course , is a combination of both dynamics . but , given that it is in everybody ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely to a reform-oriented path , it should make clear to all that a diplomatic job with regard to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of lehman brothers ’ collapse in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of the italian bank and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb the npls were deemed unnecessary . the implicit pact between banks and savers broke down at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks had been bailed out and shareholders took the hit . just ten years later , italy is not that envisioned the land of prosperous banks and happy savers . the prolonged recession and economic malaise have dented individual savings rates , while banks no longer had the resources to ensure a calm of mind for many retail investors , whose trust in the banks was severely eroded .
many poles are wary of church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its aggressive presence in polish politics . kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of young and middle classes , but most of all to polish peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland 's burgeoning economy . this link will dog kwasniewski 's presidency , and it is important that for many ex-communists , in opposing the church , pose as defenders of liberal democratic values they once persecuted by unremitting zeal . so the man who talked much about a future riding into the power saddled with the votes of the past .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but the obstacles remain . “ partnerships ” by donors can become an expensive end in itself just delaying real action . if donor governments truly want results , they should take cash off taking on 30 or more separate aids bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , the most logical being the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or the two of these agencies would then hold a multi-billion dollars account . perhaps the main risk is that a $ 20 billion consensus on aid bureaucracies ” now trip over each other to try to withdraw its roughly $ 20 billion to ensure that much of it gets through meetings , expert consultations , overhead , messages , and further meetings .
after all , the brics economies are probably the single most significant source of future global growth . currently , the brics countries are constituting a loose , informal bloc . they represent more than a quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , almost 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . indeed , the brics may also be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the actual , ruble , rupee , or rand . at the new delhi summit , the brics ’ leaders will discuss the creation of joint institutions , particularly a common development bank , that could help to mobilize savings among countries .
as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear job-driven competition – a sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-populist parties throughout europe . on the contrary , he will have to shift talk in order to reassure voters that their own economic future is bright . between now and may , cameron needs to persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling the rise in real incomes . as it stands , britain , like their european counterparts , feel overtaxed for spooking public services that constantly cuts , and is angry that its incomes have plummeted over the last five years . a key difference for the uk is that ukip takes ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annual rates , the eu ’s highest rate ) .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ the long and variable lags . ” policies intended to boost employment by the end of , say , this calendar year needed to put in place about a year ago have the time it took to its full effect . some countries – china , for example , did , indeed , implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . others , like the united states , have not , and so unemployment remains at roughly 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has made no effort to boost employment .
for more advanced goods , the eu uses value added ( when a intangible part of its manufacturing process is in europe ) , at a fairly high point . sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example – have much higher r & d costs than the shoe sector , so manufacturing those on an assembly row in a low-cost country are probably not very costly when compared to r & d and other intangible cost . imposing trade defense against such goods , even when legally warranted , is likely to generate trouble for globalized european companies . many argue that these problems are the price to be paid to ensure that companies are not engaged in anti-competitive behavior or have earned trade-distorting subsidies . but , even though steps worked as intended , most beneficial trade defense measures probably are not being directed against anti-competitive business practices .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . america ’s legal system makes certain that firms that produce a defective , and especially unsafe product are holding liable for the consequences . after all , us corporations have no conscience ; they are only the conscience of those run a firm ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often take a back seat to profits . similarly , environmental laws putting firms liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the us , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies must pay for the harm they cause . firms are intrinsically better off than consumers to judge the safety of their product ; we all benefit from knowing that our regulatory system has provided corporations with incentives to pander to the safety of what they create .
the case for acting on the massive scale to fight climate change has been made up in europe and even in the us . why , then , has there been so little debate about it ? is this because those who oppose such a debate are rejecting climate-change science ? the us does not have to look far in the face of such a mission . or do its rejection of science , because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ?
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no treaty of nice . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important , because it includes , among other provisions , all the technices of voting balances and power-sharing among the eu ’s institutions , which must be firmly established before the union can admit the new members . enlargement is the single biggest item on the european agenda , and the treaty of nice is its cornerstone . forgotten which treaty is all about this ? well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that are seeking slither and through some practical problems , while postponing others .
at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were beginning to take off , for example , nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama , in order to diagnose the causes of asian poverty , and to explain why their poverty had appeared ineradicable . simultaneous to this , a strong consensus was developed among economists and policymakers that favored import substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . having beggaring their adherents more than ever , these policies are now thoroughly discredited . the key point here is not just that the economists got so much wrong , but that almost nobody got things right . with the proverbial buggy of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that occurred over the last half-century were little better understood and rarely ( if it ever did ) predicted by economists .
but wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and , later , by a presidential decree , to june 2007 . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” show by opposition parties was brutally repressing the police and three presidential candidates . a month before the election , only 64 % of the citizens who registered received their voting cards there . two weeks ago , there was almost daily debates about the prospects for the presidential election being postponed indefinitely . now , the presidential election appears to be fair ?
princeton , the nnj – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard of former president larry summers touched off one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a gene explanation of the difficulty that his university has had in recruiting woman-based professors in math and physics . ( he did not indicate that men are on an average more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely to be able to find men at both the upper and lower end of the skill spectrum in these fields – and harvard , of course , just appoints people at its most end . now , one of the most eminent scientists of our times blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for his describe description of the structure of dna , was in london to promote his memoir , avoid dull people and other lessons from a life in science .
kenyan presidents , on the other hand , traveled to china just six times during the same period , most recently in may 2017 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to press for trade and military cooperation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . mugabe ’s first-ever visit to china in 1980 , just six months after independence ; made 13 more during his tenure , and high-level visits by fellow zimbabwean officials were even more frequent , occurring roughly once each two years during mugabe ’s misrule . state visits in the other direction have had a more highly uneven effect .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis has most often been measured in numbers . but , for young refugees missing from education , the crisis can also be tracked with irreversible metrics : passage of time . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees were experiencing a “ protracted displacement ” : out of their homes for more than five years , and with no “ instant prospects ” of return . of the 17.2 million people that the un high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half are now below the age of 18 – meaning that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out – just as soon as possible . school-age children are shaping up a significant share of the world ’s displaced populations .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are of the other two charges : that he should have done more to stop the us stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he was supposed to do more to stem the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . but how serious are these policy-political crimes to which greenspan nowadays pleads guilt ? in my view , they are misdemeanors , in large part because of the financial crisis . against them you must set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” performance at the avoidance and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . here , greenspan holds his ground , and he is not guilty .
to good faith activists who may have taken in duplicitous the movement ’s representations , i would say only that there are too many noble causes in the need for assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted in a dubious way . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators ; saving women and girls enslaved from boko haram ; defending the middle east ’s imperiled christian or arab democrats ; and , most obviously , striving for a just peace between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing less than a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggle . it is a campaign whose instigators have no aim other than to discriminate against , de-legitimize , and vilify israel that , in its mind , has never ceased to wearing its buddhist star . and it is better to know that we want to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes .
before this , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could take only from early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy . indeed , a 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cell lines without altering their genetic structure . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a means to trick complicated adult cells on mice into its regressing to their immature state , forming stem cells . indeed , a 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cell lines without altering their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon bt discovered that almost any cell in our body contains the full code of dna , enabled it to create the tadpole by cloning an adult frog .
losses in lives are inexcusable . the crisis in the mediterranean can not be piecemeal . the financial cost of patrolling its waters , and the rescuing of those adrift , is exorbitant . but we need not wait for the root causes of displacement , state failure , and civil war , all of which are being addressed . claims could be prioritized and processed regularly , and refugees could arrive in europe healthy and ready to work or study .
harnessing their latecomer advantage , japan ’s average annual growth rate has soared , to 9.2 % for the subsequent 20 years , compared with the 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , china ’s annual growth potential should grow by a similar 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . according to the most recent estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , which was 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between india and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , china ’s annual growth potential should grow to a similar 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , resolve its diverse structural problems , and develop its economy on the basis of its comparative advantage .
signatories have agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and to deploy biological resources ( such as forests ) more sustainably . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , committing to “ substantially reducing the current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . for a very low monetary outlay – and perhaps none at all on the balance – we could conserve nature , and thereby protect the foundation for our own lives and livelihoods . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains basically unknown , un-championed , and its lack of accountability . that kind of neglect is a tragedy in itself .
it remains to be seen whether the arab world ’s abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state agents in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , respond the way obama expects . it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel ; that he may amenable to a fundamental change in his position on palestine ; provided obama makes a visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , resolving a palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that an existential threat that pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . at the same time , netanyahu is aware that the arab side of the failures has nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , chairman of the american senate of foreign affairs committee , has put it , “ this peace process is not a single way street ” in which the onus is placed solely on israel .
so we decided last year to determine whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets there had become even more negative . we administered the identical questionnaire of two cities in 2015 . just as the imemo economists predicted most ( 66 % ) of those who answered this question in moscow thought that it was unfair . but that surprises occurred : the new york times yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
in the latter version of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank run , de-euroization , and default : the common currency seems at odds with the member states ’ needs . like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ “ “ “ “ “ “ emerging ” emerging ” economies . and how often are we to hear about self-fulfilling sovereign restructurings of local-currency debt ? in the former version , interest rates converge , and the implicit risk is nil , because with the ecb pulling out its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the american sense , the euro becomes “ local currency . ” prognoses for every case are starkly different .
during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in both the american district and circuit courts have been filled down to their lowest point in 50 years . republicans therefore have a good chance of forming a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which might last for decades , especially if they win the presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode the democratic checks , such as campaign-finance limits that have been dealt a devastating blow by united states citizens ’ 2010 decisions . in the 5-4 majority , the court has ruled that corporations are not an association of individuals , ” and thus that any limits on the amount of money corporations can devote to political campaign has violated their first amendment rights to freedom of expression . republican obstructionism in the senate has also imposed other forms of the federal judiciary under threat .
lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his government 's problems . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico 's post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a populist leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the kinds of populist rule we have seen in venezuela and bolivia . in fact , calderon 's ’s task will not be easy ; it will not be impossible .
a new germany government , a european parliamentary election , and , by the end of the year , a new european commission will emerge . it is here that the political leaders should devote their efforts . no one wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection . there is time to react – through demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies – but that the time is limited and the clock is ticking . next year will be crucial , for it turns to the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one .
colombo , because china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . today , we asians are witnessing , on the almost daily basis , ruthless political eavs on tools and policies that have helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , freer trade seems to be the scapegoat of choosing among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to figure out a way to accelerate our already steady economic growth . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions on a way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or , in earlier decades , cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea .
more than a hundred adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , have joined their ranks . here , too , sunni-shiite cooperation is on the verge of happening . to a large extent gone , the sunni and shia “ centralists ” have managed the past few months to form a united sunni parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central government administration of iraq ’s natural resources , as well as its deferral looming referendum to placate the status of the sunni city of kirkuk , are demanding . change within the government is also noteworthy .
the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated europe or an boundless world . so the truth has to lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless for politics ; they simply wait for a genuine leader . yes , the french are the incorrigible lovers of the welfare state ( they are not the only ones ) . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french are never really coming to believe that a state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . political fervor , it seems , did not escapes in rousseau and danton ’s land .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . but it need not be like this : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity for galvanize action on one of the boldest forces driving climate change , the billions of dollars spent by governments working on fossil-fuel subsidies . the warsaw talks are the tapping post on the path to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that avoids the dangerous consequences of climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees centigrade . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while whapping millions of people in poverty as a result of more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms .
and , indeed , the g20 has introduced few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for the “ wish list , ” of which each member country would submit to its summit in turkey in november . in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks risks being irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ every year , we are already consuming on a one-half of all planets ’ resource worth , ” ” the authors explained . similarly , the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change specifies that “ the development of infrastructure and long-lived products that lock societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive emission pathways can be hard or extremely costly to change . ” what is required is “ infrastructure choices ” that can be made to alleviate rather than worsen this situation .
the fed , for example , has committed to keep interest rates low , at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england ( boe ) , has announced forward guidance on more than short-term interest rates . perhaps most telling , the central bank ’s recent example , using forward guidance was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge alone stabilized borrowing costs and diminished interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be determined without additional data , there are many arguments in its favor .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and putting diplomats on the ground . this would not be an easy process , and it might well meet substantial iranian opposition . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of their main interlocutor in talks on its nuclear program , the sanctions-compliant p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and revival iran-us diplomacy would shorten lines of communication and close the 44-day chapter of 1979-1981 . yet , just when america adopted a “ bomb ” and discussed ” approach with the serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be willing to “ punish and talk ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating more room for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled over a cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the league of sports ; it signaled no less than the rise of a new india . here was a venture that opened new vistas for companies and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate india ’s entrepreneurial energies shown by owners , promoters , players , and followers . anyone watching the ipl nonetheless can be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the inconceivably ” shape of the game , really is an american game deliberately rediscovered by the indians . at the ipl ’s glitz , the glamour , and excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation in the past .
this superficiality results from the fact that , although communism was the thoroughly “ modern ” idea , modernity in romania goes only a skin deep . at the 20th century bmost close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) looks more like a “ neo-feudal ” state than a modern one . for here is a state in which groups , classrooms , even individuals struggle for privileges they receive , not according to talent and work , but rather according to the status in which a group in which one belongs is concerned . state banks , nation approved public societies ( trade unions , for example ) , large state corporations , act little different in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at a whim of the nation-state , for example , they can exonerated from paying taxes or have their posts and labor made unchallengeable by law .
by contrast , diplomacy may bring about the release of an israeli soldier and put a stop to qassam rockets from gaza to israel , a daily occurrence that challenged the credibility of a new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . but the crucial problem is that , up to a point , at every historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to accept compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two arab states in a british palestinian state . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and it did nothing to soften palestinian refugees ’ suffering . it was this failure that brought hamas into power .
in their thinking , hard power in the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ bound to lead ” remains largely unchanged . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a majority of asian elites awaits the rising possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . at the same time , japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in asia , indonesia might look “ the european ” in its obama craze , but it has essentially constitutes an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s own short-lived indonesian upbringing . for them , the us is above all the strategic counterweight needed to balance china .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump kept kindergarten insults off-again – “ rocket man is on a us suicide mission , ” says trump ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” kim has retorted – while threatening to cut east asia to a post-fukushima wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are to fulfill can be fulfilled . kim supposedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to talk directly to trump , whom he has agreed . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered by a cautious realism . in fact , north korea is the nuclear issue from hell , and the us president .
nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and reasonable norms of economic and political development across the continent , has stood at the heart of that policy . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement-age power , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in the status and aspiration to shape , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an efficient and constructive regional role , and perhaps with some instances globally . they typically have proactive , assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than middle-power status , and the limits of niche-style influence that canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . south africa is seeking a broader , more influential role , reinforced by its evident standing as a regional hegemon .
indeed , turkey has never missed out on the opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . it aspires to unite the european union , and would bring the eu into our three borders , even as we , all too , aspire to join one day . in the immediate wake of the russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have , once again , stepped forward to assume a leadership role in the caucasus . immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey proposed economic cooperation in the black sea . this year , just as the american-led effort to mediate a middle east peace settlement has begun to falter , turkey has appropriated a mediator ’s job in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the syria conflict and israel .
as a neighboring country , india would confront alarming consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which does n’t sit idly by if sectarian strife has intensified and shia has become the targets of a resurgent taliban . my fear is that we have not seen the last war with al qaeda or the taliban . indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is growing that once foreign troops depart , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back to power . this is why “ bringing troops home early in ” ” to western policymakers engaged in the region ’s prime objective . the west needs a way out of bloodletting starts in earnest .
an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies in equal measure to all does not market economies . a market economy needs to rest , on the economic principle of profits and loss . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to non-financial companies , just as private customers do today , fixed-term and savings-debt deposits by reforming insolvent laws . a law applicable for all other companies should apply equally to banks . and governments must respond to the threats to the banks by declaring their willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly .
yet gross capital inflows come from a emerging market to an emerging market , through large banks now implicitly backed by the state in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , “ too-big-to-fail banks ” banks are the perfect place to park their reserves – as long as the sovereign in question remains insolvent . but what , then , will those banks do with the money ? when a similar issued emerged in the 1970s after the launch of the so-called “ recycling of the oil surpluses ” – banks in western financial centers extended borrowing to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was hardly a good idea , because it led a massive ( for now ) sovereign-debt crisis in 1982 .
the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to african development . ” but the plagues of transition are more than health crises ; it signify a deeper malaise . so , put aside by the fact that these diseases are infectious and can be just as easily disseminated , or the notion that the fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility of the poor and sick , and simply consider the economic consequences of the plagues of transition . when they give way , illness , despair , and death rush into it . societies in south africa stagger from the loss of so many workers to aids .
but while this would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic mistakes before . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdowns are far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens who are visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should be delivered this year . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet agreed terms , including overhauling its counterterrorism legislation , that may not happen , a outcome made even more likely by the coup attempt .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically endorsed the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as he well recognizes , settlements are a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . moreover , during his recent election campaign , netanyahu has pledged that , if reelected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ taking control of the entire region . ” we should take it at its word this time . as long as palestinians remain oppressed , denying a nation-state for its own sake , conflict will continue .
it had failed to prevent the money supply from contracting in the early stages of the great depression . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . but those reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretionary power , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new york fed , all to allow the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in a crisis . when financial stability hung over the balance of 1933 , the failure of reserve banks to collaborate prevented effective action . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article news story news that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” ” who projected low inflation in the united states , had gotten the better of the “ hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . the message was correct but misleading , for it failed to mention why so little inflation exists in america today . were the doves right , or just bad ? the american federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but never had so much reserves generated so little monetary growth . neither the hawks nor the doves ( or anyone else ) expected this .
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births have been shown to decrease newborn deaths and infant death rates . reducing the number of high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births have been shown to lower newborn deaths and infant death rates . furthermore , cutting birth rates that are extremely high in many lmics would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs for maternal and newborn health and newborn health care and immunization . by reducing rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . the un guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent up to 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . this does n’t just fine for mothers .
king salman bin abdulaziz al saud are the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but its son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields a great power grab . as defense minister , mohammad continued the saudi policy of backing the anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a pro-iranian war in yemen ( at enormous humanitarian costs ) . the saudis also recoil under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam that is commonly blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of elementary palestinian rights – is under constant scrutiny . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking the fight to its enemies .
new york – the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to announce an end to the longest international conflict in us history prior to the 2020 us presidential election . the continued peace talks with the taliban , and the impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country , are a clear acknowledgement of that . likewise , the us has achieved many of its incipient core objectives . the us has failed to remove the taliban from afghanistan altogether , and is ruling out the possibility of the country again becoming a haven for terrorists .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and the un . emerging-market officials would earn accreditation by demonstrating the ability to apply their knowledge virtually . one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence unit that evaluates emerging-market countries ’ capacities across the asia-pacific region , latin america , afghanistan , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in the asean commonwealth of independent states to deliver a sustainable ppps . the ebrd seeks to encourage training for a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that the certificates could become as respected as a skill held by a chartered financial analyst or a member of a project management institute . we had plenty of experts – – – – – – – – – – – – – by some 300 from the 30 countries ’ public and private sectors , attempting to offer a straightforward question : “ what does it take to redouble private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging-market countries ? ”
in the meantime , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in occupied areas , in overall violation of international law , and the minimal peace requirements outlined in the “ roadmap , ” sponsored by the quartet ( america , the un , the european union , and russia ) . american efforts , led by special envoy george mitchell , have shown a clear indication that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimal required for peace . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violation of international law , and the minimum peace requirements outlined in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the american , the un , the european union , and the eu ) . the outcomes are mixed , at best . the obama administration has staked its reputation on gaining the israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on matters of security and borders .
that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt-servicing roles in august 1982 sparked region-wide debt crises . it became the broad-based emerging-economy crisis of august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign official creditors . thereafter , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , notably short-term investors in developed-country markets , began withdrawing funds from the rest of the country , in order to cover the losses they had incurred in economies where crises originated . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting every country , or even an entire class of emerging-market economies . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht and quickly spread to other east asian countries .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , arguing that failure to contribute to economic growth has gained traction . but un research makes clear that , if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points toward a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts at scaling up assistance effectiveness , progress has been modest , at best , not least because average funding for donor projects has fallen by more than two-thirds . debt represents another side of the developmental dilemma . over the past decade , the imf-world bank heavily indebted poor country ( hipc ) initiative and its expansion , the additional initiative of multilateral debt relief , have made important progress toward debt sustainability .
denver – for a variety of would-be foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary election for a 2012 presidential vote – which will , alas , continue to rage at last summer – must be a terrifying display of what americans and their leaders know about foreign policy . when jon huntsman , a premature contender , displayed some genuine intellectual heft , by making some useful points about dealing with china , punctuated by an instant display of his own mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even known a chinese perspective , it seems , had been disqualifying for a huntsman , whom his candidacy instantly ended . debate after debate reveals the fact that neither candidates seeking to challenge us president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those that do not involve american troops . indeed , ignorance seems to be a source of strength for the candidates still in the race .
i helped to launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , connecting schools to police stations by mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and youth themselves – to foster access to safe schools for an education system . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and fragile young children . so far , the fund has mobilized $ 30 million from enterprises , the nigerian government and international donor agencies , and a multidonor trust fund was established at the un . the first set of school has now received financing , with the first cohorts of at-risk peasant farmers being relocated to government schools in more secure regions of the country .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) in paris , they must address more than future targets for reducing greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) . they must also address the harm to the people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
this favorable performance has led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong growth in 2011 , with more output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , the projected recovery in terms of consumer spending has not occurred at all . rising food and energy prices outpaced growth in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while the continued fall in home prices has suppressed wealth for most households . a one-year cap on the payroll tax rate by two percentage points has been enacted to take a deadlock in this favorable outlook . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate just under 1 % in january , down from a previous quarter point of 4 % .
instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment , that is , the use of big data to match people with the jobs they will have to remain consumers . on the education system , the report calls on employers and colleges to work together toward developing talent “ ” pipelines . for example , it highlights miami ’s dade college ’s ’s programs in animation and game development , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota “ built its own high-tech technician program , ” to provide a pathway to student seeking careers at a company ’s medical college . again , we are being told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with a job-targeted education and portable social-security drivers to help jump from one automated workplace to another .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . last year , ’s united nations report on progress toward attaining the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger is actually increasing , as is the number of cases of malaria . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of climate change appear much faster than anticipated .
in the wake of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy . the basque country has established a program called local agenda 21 , intended to support the creation of local sustainability plans throughout the region . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities setting the foundation for further progress . meanwhile , south australia , for its part , has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable energy investment in australia , enabling rising renewables ’ share in power generation from practically zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in a desperate effort to do something – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to compensate for the loss of competitiveness that caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . but trade constraints were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had little to arrest a downward spiral in output and prices . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other states suspended gold convertibility , allowing their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in the 1930 ’s , countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas the most were those with the least skills to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . what they did was almost nothing to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – ever since its inception in oslo nearly two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has stymied the two sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . today , the clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant for the palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of palestinians nor govern through democratic means . hostage to an impossible coalition and of the settlements movement of free-lance fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s fidesz government has been severely compromised . its palestinian counterparts , for their part , are hardly in a better position .
this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men , who manifested in rising nonparticipation in the labor force , aggravated medical problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries experiencing high and rising levels of economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction . the result is a vicious circle in which the government finds it increasingly difficult to do whatever it needs . but government intervention is critical to address the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address on their own . as policymaking becomes erratic , it loses credibility , and becomes choked by gridlock , growth suffers , and the chances that it will achieve a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline .
prior to world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was occupied by “ jewish , ” while arsenal was “ iranian . ” vestiges of these markings remain : amsterdam ’s ajax keeps taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , still split with religious affiliation , celtic being catholic , and rangers . but a common race or religion is not vital . a tribe can be a club , a clan , or a nation .
this sops up to the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit from the fastest progress . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” in a new report to be launched at the imf-world bank spring meetings , saving their kids documents a glaring gap between health risks that is skewed toward the poorest children and their contributions to public spending are often skewed in favor of better-off households . in the language of its agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” the world bank could help to improve accountability to realize that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to track and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are narrowed .
two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while consumption of electricity is down by two-thirds since two decades ago . kim jong-il was greeted with so much fervor as entering an opera house that today marks the public mourning of his death . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while consumption of electricity is down by two-thirds since two decades ago . my trip , which took place in april 2002 , was a rather optimistic time . pyongyang , the capital , brazil , was dark and barren , illuminated by the cavalcade taking us from his official housing bust to a opera house just to return to darkness outside the us .
the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower children to be full and equal members of society has been to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . in rural india , for example , the recruiters for well-paying back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a period of three years . female employment soared , and women from 15-21 had less likely to marry or to give birth over that period . such large patterns of change will not be easy to achieve , but if girls can stay in school longer and have the decent job opportunities they provide after they graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later . but there are more gender targets to consider .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned trump three weeks later that barring north korea from making a deal , it would in fact meet with libya ’s fortunes . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north ’s rage response : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward it . ” the north was not interested in a dialogue focused on a coerced nuclear abandonment of it . choe son hui , the vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by posing a threat to a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” should washington stuck to “ illegal and outrageous ” belligerence . the “ world knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor iran , which have met miserable fates .
with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – interrupted only by a brief deceleration in 2000-2001 – the united states has accumulated an enormous stock of foreign liabilities , equivalent to more than 25 % of its gdp . the outcome was a precipitous fall in the value of the dollar , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . but no country can pile up debt forever – and what can not last sooner . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , about a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high point of presidential elections to the low point of the political sex scandal in just one short week . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of dave david petraeus as the cia ’s director was an unnecessary , self-inflicted note . in fact , both of the election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of any larger whole : an america living up to its promises . the election reminded many americans that the us is a country committed to – and capable of – progress toward a genuine vision . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas david petraeus as the director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound .
the first such casualty would be whatever small scope remains for international policy coordination . in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation has been to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit goal of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . the other would be the world ’s international monetary system , for the first time in recent years . it is true that the swiss franc appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it becomes clear why the inequality-centered outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere has gained little traction in germany . the country ’s youth unemployment rate is currently at a record-high level , with gdp growing by almost 10 % since 2013 . the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state-run leader in the thuringia , for a “ 180-degree tipping point ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning spanish terms for the “ vicarious crimes of the nazi era , ” and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s ’s reference to “ disposing of ” germany ’s turkish integration minister “ in anatolia , ” repelled voters . the second widely cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength .
china and turkey – both the olympic-level jailers of journalists in recent years – have ramped up their repression . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws prohibiting the punishment of individuals and online media by disseminating so-called “ fake news and information ” that “ disrespects ” the state . enormous fines have been imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . us president donald trump is attempting to move in the same direction . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred media label : lügenpresse ( lying press ) .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural african countries struggles at subsistence levels . bush ’s african commission , along with the un millennium project , found that africa needs some $ 50 billion a year in its aid to help them reach $ 100 billion per year in aid by 2010 . bush may have thought that america does too much to help us overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minuscule . america ’s fair share of the total amounts to roughly $ 15 billion a year . yet official american aid to africa amounts to only about $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers the salaries of american consultants , rather than investments in africa that are needed .
for now , north korea is a ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , indonesia , and pakistan . how the world responds to north korea will probably affect the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . indeed , the danger now is that the us may be fast approaching a tipping point . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and with the consequences of failure much more destructive . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in united nations security council resolution 1718 , which condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a wide array of military , political , and economic sanctions .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california norvine , will head of the us national trade council , the new white house policy store , which is set on a level par with the national security council and the national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks . the degrees of his two most recent books – the death by china ( in 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means to the world ( in 2015 ) – speak volumes about his tabloid-level biases . industrialist wilbur ross , the ceo of the us commerce department , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trading dealings . ross and navarro have also been the co-authors of the economic-policy summit published on the trump campaign web site that stretched any semblance of credibility .
but , because policymakers were constantly at risk of an end to qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained stimulus . eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” ( correct ) from monetary-policy decisions . thus , the euro-dollar exchange rate barely budged ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the ecb then proclaimed victory and withdrew qe prematurely as the european economy slowed down . the clash of interests among european member states is straightforward .
experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . in many cases , however , such imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or monitored only in form , not by substance . for centuries , western law arrived with colonial rulers in the us . even after europe ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to the us to foster development in post-colonial countries . american antitrust laws , when transplanted to japan after world war i by sir macarthur , for example , led only six prosecution in 30 years .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business model is to extract revenue not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomics firms see potential profits not from the consumers themselves but from compiled databases – likely in a way that sold access to them . ” there is certainly nothing wrong with this , but it does seem odd that customers are effectively paid a firm for donating its dna to its database . after all , drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase the network ’s biobanks on which they can test their products for differential reactions according to patients ’ ’ ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” has aimed at delivering a better-calibrated dosages and more effective therapies . but other firms have been charged with giving more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than they are in genetic testing .
and , with the face value of greek debt unchanged , the psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger . european banks holding greek government debt could continue to pretending that it is again worth their full value . the question is whether a change in their coupons – perhaps coupled with an extension of maturities – would do enough to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with german-level interest rates still well , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still quite large , and far short of the today ’s deficits . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses it to reject greek bonds as collateral .
the combination of social polarization , deficient institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . against this background , “ neoliberal ” reforms – such as the quick economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – left economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . over-fiscal and monetary expansion had made these economies unstable . current-account deficits grew , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises . venezuela was a case in point .
movies produced for consumer sexual gratification reveal cultural norms about limitations , transgression , and otherness . however , high values of production appear to have been effectively less popular . interestingly , many purveyors of the rightly held pornography initially thought that a better quality video would make its product more desirable . so a “ casual ” production style has been adopted , akin to the design of worn and ripped jeans . in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to the tastes of consumers that shifts can signal changes in a society almost immediately .
but he has never aspired to lead a country . in fact , the question is which will be even worse . clowns have always played a role in politics , if only for the time being . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done so , and still do . neither the clown nor the tycoon bodes well for being a democratic political leader .
so , trying to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , bold solutions will have to emerge . during the previous urban-based era , in its infancy , wealthy merchant families built low-rent housing , which they then allocate toward the poor . one such project , the fuggerei complex at augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing for this day . eventually , the towns and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will incite a countermovement . if they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they will sacrificing the openness that made them an attractive place .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the start of the twentieth century , did n’t pander to the almost half of the voters , which in the dreyfus affair has exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of french algeria , which ultimately did n’t understand them . france must now recall these amazon moments in its republican tradition , and hold it as a model for today ’s leaders . nor has pierre mendès france used to tell the communists that it does not want their votes to support its own government . for what will be necessary to cling to the territories that the republic almost lost to the fn is the political courage of a sort that the moment seems in short supply .
and it is indeed what we know that those landings have created a unique set of bonds from our continents . but in the aftermath of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment , – – of the north atlantic treaty organization , nato , would fade away . it could no longer fade away than our desire for freedom might wane . it did , not because our bond is based not just on shared threats , but on shared ideals . that bond remains vital to the preservation of our values and our security .
in fact , is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? in fact , china does not favors by remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s , when discussing this issue . they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . in so many areas , the chinese have been smart . i would hope that this issue does not derail the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their country has emerged once again as one of world leader .
sarajevo – ever since the 2016 brexit referendum result , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum , and us president donald trump ’s election , there has been widespread anxiety about a “ global wave of populism ” and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called “ direct democracy . ” in the uk , the electorate has been asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries passed irresponsible shia voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to re-empower the powerful gatekeepers , the ” ” ” which are a kind of polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should keep as far as they can from political decision-making as they can . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
berkeley – to fix the problem , it is not sufficient . in fact , you need to implement a solution , and are willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know very much as you thought it could . that is the message of two recent books , which collectively tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it ; what could be done to prevent it from recurring ; and why those things have so far been done . the first book is the shifts , and the aftershocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , starts by cataloguing the big shifts that set the stage for the economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . its starting point is the enormous rise of wealth across the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and the consequent level of pressure on people , governments , and corporations to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of debt .
such peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance . in fact , the other feature of the digital information age – the straight byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse no longer relies on a shared set of facts . rather than receiving our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , who , despite their often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting their editorial standards , today we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like that typically enforced within established media organizations .
robert putnam , a leading scholar of america ’s declining sense of community , has found that street-viewing is the central explanation for the loss of “ social capital , ” the trust that binds communities together . to be sure , many other factors are at work ; but the television-fueled social-media atomization should not be understated . in fact , americans tend to trust less than they did a generation ago . to be sure , many other factors are at work ; but the television-fueled social-media atomization should not be understated .
it flatly contradicts the repeated assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . in fact , this dangerous – and irresponsible – action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any assurance that it will become a peaceful nation as it once it is cultivating strong . lurking behind china ’s lack of space ambition is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the army ’s inner command circles , by which the adversary is unmistakably the united states . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , the us continues to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . yet , since the 1980 ’s , the us has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on the molecule of dna , with the science-bill “ the survival of the fittest ” asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . every once a new , powerful scientific formulation seems to be taking place through an era of abusive invoked measures . illegality and misbehavior have been artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science-tested natural code , “ the survival of the fittest . ” temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : all are said to reside in the genes . nowadays , it is the turn of molecular genetics , that we are not thinking .
around its picturesque squares , any cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne silent witness against the bloodletting that accompanied empires rise and fall . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , every summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by a russian bank . yet lviv is also where one can find hopes for a promise to europe . at a time when russia and ukraine still enjoy extremely much at war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine is strategically vital for the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to estimate president barack obama ’s full economic impact and proposed policies ; but a preliminary read shows limited short-term benefits at large long-term costs . obama has outsourced the details of the united states ’ $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and , no surprise , old home barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . a few months later , only 4 % of the money is spent , and the federal government is brow-beating state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small pay cut for some unionized workers or forfeit $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post in order to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the administration . ) the administration is exploiting the crisis atmosphere to enact a massive agenda aimed at reengineer america ’s commodified economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy , and income distribution .
the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which the u.s. should look out alone . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereigns from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will grow substantially . as europeans are well aware , there is no way of building a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever speaks for upholding the postwar liberal international order . to be sure , the us argues that it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
as a result , america ’s employment has shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn promoting higher incomes in america as well . china ’s growth has been driven by labor-intensive exports , made more competitive by technology transfers and knowledge , from the us and other western countries . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and , more recently , over-saving – has underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , america ’s consumer has benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . the age-old model has served the two sides well in the us for three decades , a strategy that began well .
this is not the first time that nato seemed to be on its last legs . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities , under president donald trump , demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . many arrived at the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to concentrate on outside of the un mission in afghanistan . then came trump , whose administration withdrew the rug from under european feet , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system and pursued a more nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies currently driving america ’s annual gdp growth rate over its 2 % potential are unsustainable . second , because the stimulus has been ill-timed , america ’s economy is now overheating and inflation is rising above target . the american federal reserve will therefore continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and will most likely push up short – and long-term interest rates , like the american dollar , for that matter . meanwhile , with inflation soaring in other key economies , rising oil prices contribute additional inflationary pressures . by 2020 , the stimulus will have been running out , with a modest fiscal drag withdrawing growth from 3 % to only below 2 % .
intensified sand drift was one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war . this is because the desert in the region normally has some kind of crust ; what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sanders and clay particles , which have been baked together or sintered , through warmth and sun . at times , this crust is strong enough to make a person , and sometimes not , much like the hard ice crust that develops on snow in colder climates . beneath the crust , sand particles actually are loose . in reality , us and british troops may have only themselves to blame .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress , judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relations with mob figures as well . a popular series like “ a good wife , ” ” showing the pain and suffering of a political spouses , who are expected to retain a stiff upper lip and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relations with mob figures as well . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960 ’s occurred in other arenas , too , as it was reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation of the image , from a charming playboy to a dangerously compulsive predatory predator . a popular series like “ mad men , ” ” ” with his dashing advertisements posted by women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs and destructiveness with early-1960s ’s male sexual prerogative .
amazingly , chasing manhattan reports that it has exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , about two percentage points of total bank lending and loan exposure for just that hedge fund ! ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . the banks that have lent vast sums , mostly untouched , to ltcm , are the same ones that put roughly $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gear , triggering tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 . when push went to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . one central truth of the last year is that financial-market problems lie not only with hedge-funds – which hold the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks that display an uncanny capacity to generate distressed gambling , whether in loans to emerging markets or the likes of ltcm .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination is receiving considerable attention nowadays . even the world economic forum was transformed into an international organization for public-private cooperation . a plethora of centers for studying business and governmental relations has been created , with researchers producing a large literature for the design , analysis , and evaluations for public-private partnerships . while adam smith began us on the optimistic belief that a invisible hand would look after most coordination matters , in an intervening period , economists uncovered all kinds of market failure , informational imperfections , and disincentives , giving rise to regulations , regulations , and other forms of government and societal intervention . of course , private-equity coordination has been the essence of economics for the past 250 years .
but while the trump administration has boosted america ’s longer-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger remains rather grim . for starters , a broad range of studies , from the work of the late economist david landes , to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson , find that institutions and political culture are the singular main determinants of long-term growth . the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . while easily may be cynical ( some would say that the new program is just an excuse for cutting funds from existing retraining programs ) , the very idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is a good thing . recovery from the harm trump is inflicting on america ’s institutions and political culture could take years ; if it did , the economic costs could be massive .
indeed , most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at a rate above 2 % without another sustained spike in oil prices . this would provide a platform to re-establish trade , shipping , and other links among ex-soviet countries , thereby capture regional markets for russian manufactured goods , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political influence in its old neighborhood . yet 2 % growth ( a respectable rate for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s path , and putin ’s personal prestige , and may risk jeopardizing domestic stability as long as jobs disappear within critical manufacturing sectors . putin is confused about how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth . his key proposal has so far been a “ eurasian union , ” an expanded version of the current customs union between russia , belarus and kazakhstan .
with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy image of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope for an assessment more robust than the earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those trials , unlike their equivalents in the united states , have failed to rebuild confidence . the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to be visible before a takeover there – to avert this possibility . but the creation of a european banking union has not been the only important change to european financial regulation since the crisis . the few banks that passed with flying colors have soon required the raising of new capital .
not all has succeeded ; but the achievements ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to ensuring the future of europe ’s ’s social-security systems , and therefore its social model , is faster growth . and once again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve the situation . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically straightforward way to generate growth , it would have been implemented already . the barriers to growth are well known , and have long existed without the removal .
gazprom ’s goal is to control not only the georgian gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russia ’s natural gas into both georgian and armenia . many state-owned firms were then privatized for ten times the sums yielded to asset sales under the previous government of euvard shevardnadze in the sea . gazprom ’s goal is to control not only its georgian gas industry , but also its only pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgian states and armenia . but utter lack of transparency allowed for russian firms , with their subsidiaries registered in third world states , to snap up most or less of the new offerings . russia ’s leading foreign-policy tool in georgian is gazprom , the state-controlled gas monopoly .
the renewed fighting , coming eight months after a promising peace initiative , known as the goma agreement , means more civilian deaths , and little chance of normalcy returning to eastern congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is less water-intensive congo suffers from the indirect effects of a war . a un mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have perished as a result of a war – and its lingering effects over the past decade . as ever , the major victims are civilians who are caught in the crossfire . today , a quarter-million people are running , almost half of them on rebel-controlled territory and with nearly no access to aid .
it is no accident that the twin great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years – were characterized by the balance of power and hegemony , respectively . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , loan letters are honored , tariffs , and other barriers are taken away , and so on . the same could perhaps be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . to be sure , trade requires more than the absence of conflict . henry kissinger once said that “ peace can be achieved through hegemony or the balance of power .
for smes , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbue their spirit of fearlessness . when properly integrated to a student ’s educational background , externships can lend the competitive edge to college app essays , and at campus , or alumni interviews that increasingly use admissions committees to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of tech top-scoring .
but a few million americans – poor , white , and hispanic – now live in per capita incomes of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same norm that the world bank uses to define the sdgs for india or africa . finding shelter in the united states on the grounds that incomes are so hard that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost certainly much worse in the u.s. than $ 2-a-day rates on poverty in india or africa . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is coming under threat . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but that undoubtedly fosters resentment among a whites ’ working class whose children find no place in this brave new world . towns and cities that lost their factories to the benefits of globalization have also lost their tax base and find it hard to maintain their quality schools – an escape route for future generations .
some people may not wish this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities seeking to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities knowing so much about them . others might take advantage of services , like intercom , to gain insight into their users ’ interests , from its music preferences to its favorite hobbies , in order to offer increasingly personalized services . website startups might even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel list database of angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of funding . once a company identifies which users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example – it might offer them better treatments , hoping to recommend a funder . indeed , many online service departments now offer a way to connect users with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or recommend activities or restaurants that rely on past behavior or management .
for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage amounted to a tipping point , whereas left-wing catholics discover themselves to be crowded by the far right . french catholics now feel regarding as though their historically privileged position is under attack , owing to the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and through legislation that has increasingly challenged their path of life . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , dismiss multiculturalism and have responded to their position on the anxieties of dismissing their expertise . with france becoming less roman , and america becoming more heterogeneous , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not simply be written off .
for better or for worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by setting aside or adding paper assets to stocks held by private banks . when asked to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy from private banks on commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then hold more cash for cash to lend . and vice versa when the authorities want to cool off the economy . but the more successful libra becomes , the more cash people will transfer from their bank account to their libra wallet , and the less able central banks want to stabilize the economy .
today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls reveal that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . polls reveal similar reactions after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate range missile launches in europe in the early 1980 ’s . despite a long history of an alliance dating back to the american revolution , and including the two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward america , and the iraq war was not the first time that a us controversial security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france .
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education , funding for scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make these investments , particularly in developing countries – which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose more than $ 200 billion a year because of tax avoidance by multinational corporations . when countries create tax regimes that effectively steal tax revenues from the rest , the result also has less money to spend on education , healthcare care , poverty-reduction programs , and climate-change mitigation measures . this should not be allowed , and multinational companies should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut . after all , a fundamental principle of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate .
what ’s more , the rapid spread of etfs coincided with bull markets . for their part , index performance has largely dictated safety selection , with asset allocation implying little more than accumulating into stocks , bonds , and credit . but these days , too , appear to be coming to an end . further sustained advances in market economies are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . broad market returns are probably lower , with episodes of bouts of volatility probably more frequent .
cambridge – economics teaches that the measure of individual ’s wellbeing is the quantity and variety of goods that it , or that it can consume . consumption is the objective ; production is the means to which it is . nobody can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric vision of the economy – has produced so much fruit . markets , rather than communities , do the unit and object of analysis . consumption options are intrinsically maximized by giving firms the leeway they need to seize the new technology , sharing labor , developing economies of scale , and moving mobility .
some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as the $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but further expansion is not guaranteed . the fragmentation – meaning that the end of the internet – is a real threat . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be very costly for the world , but that is one possible futures outlined late last month in a report by the world internet administration , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now links nearly half of the world ’s population , with another billion people , as well as some 20 billion devices , is forecast to be related in the coming five years .
that sounded like a comfortable experience , perhaps a learning experience – for young men , who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but it was n’t much inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal could n’t bring an end to america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , the seeming relative strength of the american economy today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . likewise , much of the fast-forward communications in recent years reflects innovations – the smartphone and tablet hardware and software – that have been indigenous by americans . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the u.s. , has helped lower energy prices and have removed america ’s dependence on foreign oil .
and an estimated 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies , part of the reduction in unpaid care work done by women in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require additional investment , the creation of job opportunities for women , and the introduction of measures to help women move to more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures that have proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , making it possible to provide girls with sanitation facilities in school in their sites , and creating financial incentives – including cash-transfer schemes – to increase enrollment and keeping girls in school .
the other major multilateral agency for migration , the iom , hopes to be heard in the return of migrants , asylum-seekers , and internally displaced to their place of origin or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . foremost , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments are using coercion – prohibited under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees . the unhcr , as it currently conceived is not the independent , nonpartisan agency that claims it is . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their interests , and has no political backing that it needs to get the job done .
with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response after the 2008 financial crisis , the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , an essential component of responsible economic management , for the last five years , by requiring central banks to bolster economies artificially . to do so , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold a disproportionately large share of their financial assets . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their tax bills – including through so-called “ inversions ” – by shifting their boards of directors to lower-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – of incomes , wealth , and opportunity – that left unchecked reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences .
according to one view , he is betting that rural social conservatives and whites ’ whites will vote , based on nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than for their own financial interests . and not even the administration ’s plan to favor the skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily bring down the total number of legal migrants in poland . but how long might anyone be expected to support “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” ? all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat populist dress – that is , a pluto-populist . but why has his base let him distance himself from the policies that mostly hurt them ?
while all other large european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit males between 18 and 27 have to serve for 12 months . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription . while all other large european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit males between 18 and 27 must serve for 12 months . exemptions are based on medical conditions , and are handed over to the university students and staff of specific organizations ( such as the police ) . the drafters received their current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians view it as special or substantial ( 32 % do not ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , if potentially one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , switzerland , and luxembourg – and includes a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation regarding its climate , history , and culture . it has also been a pillar of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and its empire . the first african region to be christianized ; it was saint augustine ’s land and a key source for the catholic evangelism of africa .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually everyone – knows precisely who is to blame for the disappearance of khashoggi : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist must mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who tow an official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare “ speak truth ” to power . since the failed arab spring revolutions of which tunisia is “ the only success story ” – citizens across the region – have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and militant rule . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only further deepened their anxieties .
second , complicated instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than on over-the-counter market , and they should be standardized in order to emerge in liquid secondary markets for which they can emerge . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the us financial system , including the regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . foregoing financial liberalization will be hard to reverse , but its adverse side effects – including more systemic risk – require a broad set of reforms . first , more information and transparency about complex assets , and who holds them , are necessary . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
and yet it is only one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . to be sure , they should continue to engage with the outside world , reinforcing their strategic relationships and alliances . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , stand in defense against nonexistential threats , and its hegemonic expansionism . but they , too , must become less dependent on the rest of the world . arabs must take charge of their own agenda , becoming the primary power that defines their future , and the two countries .
this wisdom has prevailed not only in india ; it has influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries . besley and burgess have argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not adopt such regulations . this finding came after underscoring the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation are harmful for industrial expansion , and that the way it is for manufacturing and employment growth to raise output and employment in manufactures is to foster more labor-market “ flexibility , ” by repealing laws that protect workers . now a new paper by servaas storm effectively demolishes yet another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor market “ rigidities ” depress output and employment . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for this argument is the recent paper by timothy besley and robin burgess ’s use of manufactures across indian states for a period of 1958-92 .
britain ’s economic prospects are increasingly reliant on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in chile or california . swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . a recent political cartoon showing british bombers taking down their mission with one pilot saying to the rest , “ it looks a long way to bomb some of the country ’s young men from south london . ” in fact , environmental hazards blow up in august . security fears increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies .
following this election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws on the organization of society and the economy . such laws , already agreed but not fully implemented , should be the catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on a type of direct relationship between the leader and the people , and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . given this history , it is patently false that in his speech a day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and everyone else to work together for the good of venezuela . he emphasized that the people voted “ against chávez and socialism . ” meanwhile , every one-party state – all of them – now obey chávez .
on occasion , however , the damage can not be corrected . indeed , genes can be corrupted by environmental factors , such as radiation and chemicals . our bodies have elaborate repair systems that retain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . they may also be corrupted by products of normal metabolism . so long as the damage comes from key genes regulating cell growth , cancer may develop .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a potent democratizing force – enabling innovation start-ups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but just as some of these startups grew to the behemoths , they transformed this force on their head . far from adjusting the playing field , big tech is now owned largely by it , and rather than democratizing the economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s exacerbating inequality problem . but just as some of these startups grew to the behemoths , they transformed this force on their head . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in announcing the new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of our time ’s great opportunities for sino-us cooperation , ” saying that by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . ” still , one left wonders whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of a sudden economic upturn in china ? for , while america has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – with president barack obama ’s cabinet representing a new high-water mark for diversity – americans have often displayed a xenophobic mistrust of those who drawn too close to power . to be sure , the developing world may be making a far worse , if not better . specifically , fears of divided national loyalties and the “ fifth colum” pillars have been strong .
five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have raised the global deficit to nearly 5 % of greek gdp . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would demonstrate a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . greece ’s economic weakness raises the current deficit level . this also indicates that if greece were to escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , in both absolute terms and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during a wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . ” when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on their gaining equal status with china . the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks an enormous change from the hostility that has bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , the us defense secretary referred to china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee discussed china as india ’s number ’s enemy . on more recent visits to india , by contrast , i found my hosts alluding to the world order .
because hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not have worked easily . while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in mid-august of the crisis , his order that banks raise their capital has become entirely justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them in a wall of three-year liquidity at virtually zero cost . fortunately , there is a very good independent test of what we know about it . chief of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new nonbank-friendly regulations . so , have he received the stick , rather than the carrot , ?
now , however , even mighty bund have started to suffer from heightened market anxiety . second , and in part as consequential , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . while it might have been necessary to price risk more accurately , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio of almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s ’s , deserves to be weighed by a higher default risk . third , financial-market participants , and increasingly , real firms , are pricing in a potential eurozone breakup , if not an end in themselves . it is still difficult to think of the unthinkable , much less to work out the details , but any rational player now has to weigh that possibility .
indeed , by chance , on sunday a young , soccer fan broke out in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , was a meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting took place as part of a rally , chaired by surkov , of russian youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for elections , to train your brains , and your muscles . you can always count on support from our country from our country , which is very day . you can always count on our support .
last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if the world is sticks with “ doing business as usual , ” global temperatures could rise by more than 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c increase seen as being “ safe . ” this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to call for political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to reach a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 . hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit frog once lamented that “ it ’s not an easy bein ’ green . ” today , that sentiment is shockingly relevant to the global economy , just becoming green that is the problem . but , just as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by massive investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables .
the organization and the allocation of power at the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that vanished long ago . the search for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how grossly unjust today ’s international institutions are . the organization and the allocation of power at the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that vanished long ago . in the aftermath of wwii germany and japan was the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that led mao ’s communists to power . the quest for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how misliving today ’s international institutions are .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the movement of people to the uk . merkel has refused , and the brexit referendum has passed by a narrow margin . the irony is that merkel now faces the same anti-migrant backlash that cameron did in 2016 . immigration tends to be good for an economy throughout the long run , especially if the ratio of pensioners to workers rises . but when the level of immigration exceeds a country ’s labor-absorbing capacity , severe economic and social costs may suffer , at least in the short run .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and , in a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of a declaration that debt issued by a specific government would be considered odious . such a declaration reduces the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments would renounce their predecessor ’s debts without imposing statutory and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . the cgd ’s report proposes that the regime should be seen as odious if it abuses popular human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funds .
that cleared the way for a return by bhutto , who remained prime minister until her first election in 1996 , when she was trounced yet again – this time by her own pakistan ’s peoples party . but his military confrontation has intensified over the years , leading in yet another 1999 coup , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and the new election brought to asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who was assassinated in late december , to challenge her presidency . ignoring constitutional demands , zardari did not transfer the executive powers to his prime minister and , instead , expected the two prime ministers that he will serve under him to follow through on his command . it was , after all , sharif ’s turn in 1997 .
wealthy countries ’ shift away from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity has conditioned on a profound demographic shift occurring in western europe during the 2010s and across the twentieth century , in which fertility rates fell dramatically . over the same period , tunisia ’s gdp growth rate has fallen by over 50 % , to the european average of slightly more than two children per woman , with per capita income growing at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries , which are now showing solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman during the past 15 years . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income has grown at an annual rate of 2.6 % .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s efforts to establish a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is already meeting with the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries , too , are back on similar pathways militarily . it has built and launched its first aircraft carrier , and has plans to launch more . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense systems . though china still has plenty of catching up to do , its overall defense spending is already second only to that of america .
the resulting vacuum has been filled by different currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , partial american withdrawal implies that the end of enforced stability in the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders . the developments in syria and iraq are already suggesting as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has grown more precarious . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its prior level of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force for order is available . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play out there .
in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . that means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption goals – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with a much slower rate of gdp growth than it did in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit similarly consumption-absorption targets , which have required 10 % growth under china ’s previous model . for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country in their traditional growth sectors . so , why are services so important for china ’s rebalancing ?
indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces in the eu would strive , with increasing success , to make their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu a central issue in domestic political discourse and electoral campaigns . the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , by the end of 2016 , a referendum on remaining in the eu , and a far-left party – determined , like greece – to escape the rigors of economic reform , could win spain ’s general election next autumn . certainly , events might turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , with spain choosing for a status quo , or a more moderate vision for change than greece ’s syriza syriza-led government embraced . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly plausible : “ grexit ” ( greece will leave the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk exit the eu ) , and the spanish electoral outcome that resembles greece ’s . should such a perfect storm take place , the eu would be doubtful , because other member countries would consider or have started planning their own post-eu futures
aids to the world ’s poorest countries is proving stagnant , despite years of promised increases . around the world , oil prices are at historic highs . and yet , in this gathering storm , it used to look hard for a single real accomplishment by global leaders . climate change negotiations are currently playing out in circles , by global standards . leading economies are once again entering a recession .
instead , they paved the way for his campaign . two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur a economic revival . in just a couple of short years , his pro-market and economic-opening package appeared out of step with the rest of the world . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for policy , with the frustration and insecurity of a future overshadowing hope . frustration even afflicts the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” but now in america , it is the morning after . they were asked to admire at the top of the income pyramid only to find that they looked at the pyramid scheme . not surprisingly , therefore , a sort of survivalist chic became an updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960 ’s . this drive toward an off-the-grid , eat-you-go , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-powered fantasy is unavoidable : americans were pumped in full of hope that greater consumption would make them happier and were left with a pile of debt . americans lost faith in those who , in their boom times , purred , “ trust in us . ”
to be sure , china has been wary of avoiding any dramatic action that might become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple parts , and then is pursuing every element separately in such a way as to allow various pieces to fall into place with little opposition . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of starting a war on an adversary while seeking to lay out a foundation , brick through a brick of the hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ declared desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a position powerful enough to claw their way without having to fire a shot . that shrewdness not only puts their opponents at balance ; it also undercuts america ’s security assurances to its allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia .
los angeles – los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , have converted rapidly when they see the benefits . fundamentally , this has been the right approach for managing systemic risk and changing complex interconnected systems , and for successfully managing common resources – though it has so far dent the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the decades ahead , we may see a global system of interconnected , sustainable cities . these cities learn from one another , building on good ideas and jettisoning poorer people . if successful , all of them want to rejoin the club , the rest of us .
new york – some years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing on a grand hall of people . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not fear a “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” so named for a greek historian who chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides the trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put the issue crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions , desecrated the environment , and deeply felt by china ’s traditional culture ? we need to look ahead , and not back , for that to happen . things are finally moving in the right direction and let us not , the please , do whatever potentially annoyed that hopeful movement . chinese intellectuals have tended to avoid the question , shrugging it off as irrelevant and anyway too uncomfortable to contemplate .
london – what did the recently leaked panama papers , by exxonmobil and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all the cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , fool , or hide behind a front . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million files , apparently by computer hackers , out of the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time to come . initial files ’ dismissal have exposed the extremes , and sometimes costly , lengths that individuals go to hide their assets and avoid taxation . and they are all the cases where the effort has not worked .
its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were agitating for pushing wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity . the longer-term consequences wo n’t be savory , but berating them for another day will be challenging . some will say that a fatal error was enabling greece to adopt the euro firsthand . that the country was so unprepared to be made clear . but this answer is too simple , given the widespread hint of dysfunction in greece .
unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating nowadays . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne blame for the eurozone crisis ; indeed , their own economic illiteracy is on the fault . that policy destined to produce a financial crisis on the grounds that it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts . despite austerity , this year ’s forecast of the uk ’s structural deficit has increased from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an additional £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts a year . depressions , recessions , contractions – ask them what one will – happen because the private-sector spends less than it did previously .
paris – last month , concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million by the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend , which fits the feasible scenario set by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , concentrations of co2 are likely to rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century , with devastating consequences . indeed , the predicted global average temperature increase of 2.4-6.4 ° c , caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations , is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenario , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will increase to about 550 ppm by the end of the century , a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , global carbon emissions – which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually – must be halved by 2050 .
good science is the cornerstone of both policies . because fish and other ocean wildlife remain outside national boundaries , international cooperation is vital to the long-term health of the world ’s oceans and the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs . good science is the cornerstone of both policies . the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . but it is not enough to obtain our respective houses in order . for its part , the european commission has just presented a reform proposal for a common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries .
technologies that engage patients in their own health-care systems and allow more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . further breakthroughs , enabled by the convergence of science and technology , are possible , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . today , ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to new genomics information , the affordability of big data to influence decision-making , real-time time management , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , more collaborative delivery systems . in this process , partnerships between health-care companies and technology firms will become increasingly important . but they are only the beginning , but they are hardly the beginning .
they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically , or economically , or have the sheer heft to gain around the limits . moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . even in tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have managed to find its way around controls in recent decades . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows during the last decade have enabled them to find their way around controls . they create a layer of protection against competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or with the sheer heft to obtain around the limits .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its world outlook to forecast that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . and while major central banks plan or have already begun to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low , for now . such shifts can emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the risk-based calculus and potential returns . today , there is easy evidence from the fundamentals of fundamental factors : earnings growth , inflation remains at bay , and the global economy seems to be experiencing a widely , synchronized expansion . political crises , however sensational they might may be , are unlikely to change investors ’ economic calculus .
more than once , he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by the erroneous beliefs that , if he did not rein in the deficit , he might have been able to forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . just a week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly ” from osborne ’s medicine , ” perhaps “ decide that they were supposed to stay in bed . ” instead , the tories won an outright majority , atousing pollsters and keynesians alike . what might perhaps have gone wrong again or not ? the skidelsky approvingly titled krugman ’s assertion that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ”
to my right sat dagan , who just ended eight years as head of mossad ; to my left sat dore golden , a former academic and a former israeli ambassador . both men held very different views about how best to assure israel of its security , and they earned him recapitulating its arguments . gold countered that a return to the pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without legally defensible borders . dagan countered that the army ’s ’s ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s frontiers , regardless of where those frontiers would be drawn . he insisted that israel can guard against threats from its east if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and control the jordan river , which runs along the frontier separating jordan and the west bank .
rather , global interest rates scraping the floor , because gdp growth outside the us has been so sluggish . if a rip van winkle economist was to awaken today after a decades-long slumps and see only these figures , he or she assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing on lines outside soup kitchens . the idea that an american wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic musing some inreconstructed in a dingy corner of the faculty parlance . but such a view is hardly ideological . instead , the american jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his celebrated first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago .
though not planted for climate claims , these trees soaked up carbon dioxide . but burgeoning forests also reduced new zealand ’s emissions in their comparison year of 1990 . new zealand had successfully negotiated to include this specific emissions offset in its overall figures , neatly balancing the true increase . for safety ’s perspective , the country has also bought lots of foreign offsets , including highly thatched ones from russia and ukraine . since 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations have raised more than 1.4 million hectares , an increase of over five million kilometers .
berlin – europe , at long last , seems to be moving past its multiyear economic crisis , but remains unsettled . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for a nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever brexit promises may hold . so they decided to leap off a brexit cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” for every cause of optimism , there is always a new cause for concern . there is much evidence to suggest that the hard landing awaits the united kingdom .
new york – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s unilateralist approach to foreign policy became starkly apparent in 2009 . its administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments when it disagrees profoundly with the character of its own . it prefers to act with other countries , to go it by going it alone . and it has shifted the focus of american foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how they interact . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded select countries as evil and mostly rejected cooperating with other governments , lest the us discover itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries rather than influence its actions .
this bank would also ensure that its emissions trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example through the complete sale of unused emission credits by individual developing nations at the outset of the contract period . for the moment , all of this is still utopian . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are much farther away than fair and efficient ; a major improvements would include the establishment of a central climate bank to register and supervise the divestment of emission credits . up to a point , until now , the wealth of nations was based on the combustion of coal , natural gas , or oil . but , with the 2 ° c goal taken seriously , the twenty-first century would see countries that are not so far off the path of de-carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) or that are leaving it in time ( like india and pakistan ) able to become rich by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly .
gunter nooke , germany ’s ’s ’s africa commissioner , has an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede ground to the european union as special economic zones , in what would amount to a “ voluntary colonialism . ” former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not put the end of a crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , other than as a stopgap measure . in many countries , policymakers and the media portraying refugees as a security threat , cultural cohesion , and public assets .
since its introduction in 1988 , iran has had a government-funded , regulated system for purchasing kidneys . according to a study , published in 2006 by yougov kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country , without giving rise to any ethical challenges . a 2006 bbc tv program showed many potential donors turned away because they failed to meet the strict age criteria , with others charged with visits from the psychologist . a charitable association of patients then arranges a transaction , a set price , and nobody but the seller gains from it . a more systematic study of the iranian system continues to be desired .
with the advent of the cold war , then-us president harry truman ’s administration and the united states congress acknowledged the urgency of europe ’s reconstruction . the concern then was discrimination : european countries , worried that , would find it easier to import from one another but , lacking dollars , would still refuse to import tariffs from america . moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of a newly created international monetary fund . to this end , they argued , the epu used $ 350 million of marshall plan funds . on this point , however , both narratives differ .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom , and a presidential race in the united states , have shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the rise . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know how difficult it can be for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people . the dangers implied by such a scenario should not be underestimated . that distrust could derail new trade agreements now in the us , and impede the launch of future ones . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that delivered peace and prosperity for decades to come .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis seems set on keeping it there . there have been severe grounds over the past three years for believing that latin america is going through one of its periodic bouts of left-right destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president , rafael correa , and their overweening leader , chávez . but the recent spike in commodity prices has meant that the traditional regional powerhouses of chile , brazil , and mexico have all experienced economic booms on their own terms . chávez is the faded not only because he gave the farc moral support ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” ” ” ” not to terrorists , and publicly labeled uribe the american stooge ) , but also because he is believed to deliver the farc covert military support . that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll the bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hopes of building up much regional anti-americanism .
for america today , the real question is whether a short , sharp downturn , or a more protracted , yet shallower , slowdown . with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures , thereby passing the us economy ’s troubles to its next president just as it is doing with its iraqi quagmire . its chances of succeeding are slim . even if the american federal reserve continues to hold down lower interest rates , its lenders will not rush to buy more bad mortgages .
as it stands , labor mobility in the eu is imperfectly within the eurozone . but centralization does its own expense . but , with linguistic training and the implementation of something like the lisbon strategy of growth and jobs ( which aims to build an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could strengthen . given the risk intrinsic to bet on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , particularly the well-educated young – to leave lagging regions for those offering more and better job opportunities – could demonstrate itself to be a critical lever of adjustment . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , either .
“ it ’s not america that you must work here ” is a popular joke . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and we inherited much from asia : co-citizen , cuisine , cultural traits , and a common history . today , most russian elites feel themselves not just european but , i believe , too european . fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or moscow , not paris or budapest . many of the new russians , working like machines 16 hours a day , look on their more relaxed western counterparts with the disdain often found in asia ’s crisis-ridden tiger economies .
while suu kyi does not control the military , which is leading a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who had previously championed international engagement and the nobel peace prize for her role in her fight for democracy in myanmar . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , also feels the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to cease work across affected areas . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has been exacerbating it .
though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , a two-sided dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests , which are founded not only on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and the collective battle against terrorism . european politics next year will be consumed in the wake of the brexit negotiations . in march , the united kingdom will probably invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering a formal exit procedure from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that guarantees the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . that will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set the timeline for just 18 months .
according to the american state department ’s own human-rights report , curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and a ban on practicing shia islam , to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” ” ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in practicing its own faiths , a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayals of islam . moreover , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions as part of sharia law that might imply strict limits on muslims ’ rights to choose how they practice their beliefs . internationally , measures of press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits as well .
indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has stated , on uncharacteristically strong terms , that rising sea levels are “ practically certain ” to continue rising in the centuries or even millennia . yet the recent revelations about antarctica are very different . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) in uncharacteristically strong terms has stated that sea levels are “ practically certain ” to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . there are not many types of human activity whose impact could reasonably have been predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia ahead . the sdgs from nuclear waste are one ; humanity ’s contribution to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is another .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies ruined , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united nations in 1998 by the bombing of american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 of the students killed while living at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks garner the world ’s attention , most people fail to recognize that by the previous five years alone , 33,000 have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and the groups espousing it threaten to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also in decades to come . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and nongoverned territories where an extremist group may be like germany .
the first problem is china ’s ’s economy , so dynamic locally but with so rickety underneath . moreover , sii argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged demand impairment in advanced countries . by 2015 , the rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus – mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending – sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . but the price has since been an increasingly serious capital misallocation , leading to growing bad loans portfolios , while excessive chinese household savings have inflated the real-estate bubble . the fsb lucidly presents a picture of a macro success alongside micro ’s failed analyst .
xi , for his part , has advanced what he has describes as a concept for “ a new type of great power relations , ” one seeking to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of a prolonged confrontation between a rising power ( china ) and an established power ( america ) . but , in the american view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . for these reasons , it is increasing the bilateral strategy of trust in the bilateral strategy of trust . on human rights , the us argues , it is indeed fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and contemporary systems . moreover , the us argues , it does not include china ( as it has done with the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise has been facilitated by its access to american markets ; it is also facilitated by global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization .
still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior , and hamper wealth creation . but this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition across jurisdictions diverge quite differently from market competition among firms . and there is little evidence that the tax burden really falls on employees rather than on capital . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office and the institute for taxation and economic policy have demonstrated , among others , that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not workers .
clinicians are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and their families , who want them , and are even willing to pay for them . so , european welfare states face a severe dilemma . there is little doubt that holland spends a substantial amount of money on caring for the old . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is either to leave the country or to enter its courts . in holland , no private medicine exists .
the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . unfortunately , it remains far from clear that the china model of infrastructure development can be exported universally . some developing countries in asia are working differently . in democratic india , for example , it took just eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport because courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts . china ’s robust central government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and , for many years , has ran roughshod over ecological concerns and workers ’ rights .
but congressional republicans might insist on making payments for personal income tax cuts by limiting the tax deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . that change , in turn , would raise revenues equivalent to about 1 % of gdp , just enough to pay for very substantial cuts in individual tax rates . it is also easy to fall into the tax cuts ’ thinking trap as a way to boost aggregate demand . and even when there are revenue that can be earned from airports , firms might be deterred by the need to rely on longer-term pricing agreements . a tax plan to advance the behalf of the republican party by paul ryan , the speaker of the house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charitable contributions and mortgage interest .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their own environmental challenges . at the same time , observers cite the habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent indictment of everyone : that rising poaching is endangering species , such as elephants and rhinos . in kenya , by contrast , an innovative and far-reaching conservation project is under way . started in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” originally conceived to protect highly at-risk black rhino from the ravages of poachers , is being supported by the very people they could resist : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming zones .
the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a low of 1.5 % in 2005 , but about half the 7.5 % average recorded in the final three decades of the twentieth century . the personal-saving rate has stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a low of 1.5 % in 2005 , but about half the 7.5 % average recorded over the last three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive . the convoluted logic behind this strategy is pretty troubling , owing not only to the united states , but also to the global economy . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive .
europe ’s 1992 and 1993 currency crises , together with more recent chaotic demonetizations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . a second early achievement was that , by virtually any measure of international use , the euro instantly became the world ’s second global reserve-currency country . moreover , the desire for a club to be admitted has led to favorable reform in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries , which later joined the european union . ecb president mario draghi deserves summit for balancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs accommodation . more recent reprofiling for the “ success ” part of the ledger include the progress of some periphery countries , notably spain , which has reduced their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
hungary , where democratic backsliding appears to take hold , provides the foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . the european union ’s economy is sliding into a severe , and in all likelihood a long-running recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany is still trying to banish the specter of hyperinflation with tough eurozone austerity measures , the eu ’s crisis countries face a real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . it is only a matter of time – no longer much more – before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability . if it ’s unlucky that a crisis can come to a head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and every earlier calculation might become moot , because , despite german frustration with europe , voters would punish forcefully those who allowed europeans to fail .
the ctbt is needed because of the role of nuclear tests in developing and improving the presence of nuclear weapons . such trials are also political symbols of which there is no place in a world determined to remove such abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . even today , thanks to a bewildering array of sophisticated means , we can spot very small nuclear tests in remote locations . the treaty also happens to be fair — it involves equal rights and responsibilities for all its parties . it sets a new standard for nuclear non-proliferation and verification .
we need leaders with enough mastery of detail , like those of china , the last premier zhu rongji , who can not simply tell us how to get us from the to z , but might , in fact , steer us from the path of b. after all , their capacity to act is constrained by their political environment . or , as long as they exist at all , they seem to be constrained by dysfunctional political systems . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many of his hopes rested – probably too many for any one leader . looking around , leaders like this seem to be the “ extinct species . ”
today , the palestinians seek statehood on a mere 22 % of territory that was part of mandatory palestine , until israel was unilaterally established on areas much bigger than those awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . as a result , the un security council resolved in november that year that “ acquisition of territory by war ” is unacceptable . subsequent un security council resolutions and international treaties have upheld this principle . in reality , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders , it is precisely what us president barack obama called upon to do .
moreover , we might find ourselves in a world whose eastern half is organized into strong , authoritarian state-driven structures , the west embracing post-state models of association . the question for international governance nowadays is how to provide a governing framework and set of rules in a world of competing organizational structures . indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a global networked set of interests and shared causes is probably more resilient than one crammed into the artificial – and , increasingly , constraining – box of the national state . in that sense , economic success for china or india may be those nation-states ’ undoing , as the middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . the policymakers ’ answers are depressingly predictable : confronted by a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon even our own states and their diplomacy to their fates .
the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of its reform agenda , respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . many hope that these changes will help the ccp to become more efficient , bolstering its market role , and to avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , the party ’s rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will be met .
countries can do more to make it harder for individuals to leave for iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list , for instance , would help . curtailing the flow of recruits is an even more imperative for them to use them . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey decides that it will no longer authorize itself into a conduit by enforcing united nations security council resolution 28 calling for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must counter include appeals and propaganda . such flows would need to be shut down by both governments and financial institutions .
political technology means secretly sponsoring fake opposition politicians like bogdanov , setting out fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movement like nashi ( ours ) to keep a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a sham “ enemy ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in 1999-2000 , the communists ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ beggar-thy-neighbor oligarchs . now it is the us , the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions , ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some or all of this distasteful , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that scarcely seems to disappear overnight . indeed , we also need a better understanding of the mechanics of russian succession politics .
in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures proceeding steadily , if not at the desired pace . the visegrád group , cefta , a central european initiative , produced a thriving free trade system and increased investment flow across countries in the region . so our task was to rebuild not only the state , but society as a whole , its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural legacy . our newly freed societies must now learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we have learned our new economic and political language . through learning every other part of the languages through cooperation based on shared values , common interests , as well as historic ties , central europe has demonstrated what spectacular achievements are possible .
the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment areas , as well as the national park , vitally important one on kenya . in 1988 , conservationists decided to provide financing and build an electrified fence to protect an district of aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was designed to stop the intrusion of the human population and park degradation . local farmers , for their part , welcomed the initiative , influencing their decision to expand a fence to surround their perimeter off the spanish aberdare range . but it also provided protection for african farmers , whose crops regularly devastated the marauding elephant and other wildlife .
first , social inequality rose unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing in part to the disappearance of the soviet union , and with it , the threat posed by expansionist communism . the specter of the revolution had driven western elites to use the state ’s power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . that was bearable as long as the overall pie expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that day . nonetheless , with communism ’s collapse in its eurasian heartland , the west has become rich , believing that they have nothing more than fears , pressed to roll back the welfare state , causing rising inequality . there are two major causes for these protests .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . in 1998 , the un projected the total value of the illicit drug trade at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . the critics say that the figure is just half that – still a remarkable sum – that is a big deal . colombia today is far worse off than chicago under al capone . the drug ban effectively imposes a tax on global commerce for the illicit drug trade enforced by governments and gathered by those willing to violate laws .
tatiana insisted that bam construction began in 1974 , a politically correct date after which a “ clean labor party ” employed . but the railway ’s first section – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that fled the chinese border – was built on forced labor , including russian inmates and german prisoners , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . lacking adequate affordable housing and electricity , few re-enlisted and a lot deserted prior to completion of their term . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era construction showed what the dying soviet system was still capable of achieving .
in fact , party grouping that benefits most of the current electoral system will be the only one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . and , with support of around 26-29 % , it remains popular , despite its poor performance , which runs the city governors of rome . the problem for m5s is that it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote in order to secure its parliamentary majority . as it showed with its election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always shaped the coalitions . as proportional representation determines two-thirds of the lower house ’s seats , one-third elect first-past-the-post voting in one-member constituencies where m5s is likely to lose out because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities .
upa ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger passenger fares , and freight rates for rail services , which could not cover the cost of maintenance to ensure railways and tracks , much less capable of expanding and improving the service , reflecting the government ’s inability to make hard decisions . it is true that coalition politics avoided decisive action , with the railroad minister suming his own party leader , whom the upa was politically incapable of confronting , after attempting to raise fares . but , in an pre-election intermediate interim budget , the upa government ended up doing nothing of the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % increase in freight rates . per india ’s ’s public ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until after the election . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to introduce price increases , though officials made certain to emphasize that they had merely been following through on an existing mandate .
this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing level of cultural diversity . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic domestic register of citizens , the authorities will disenfranchise any india that it is unable to prove its or her provenance in india . many indians , especially the poor , lack documentary evidence of when , and where they were born ; even birth certificates , have become widespread only in recent decades . under the approved bill , muslim immigrants might be reported to have made a illegal twist . while non-muslims would , thanks to the now-approved bill , gain a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of demonstrating for india .
in fact , the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was all but completely unexpected . is europe today poised to come to terms with a similar failure in an important financial institution ? compounding the problem , no one really understands the precise connections among russia and european institutions and markets . having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , particularly given european economies ' close links to russia through trade and energy . the financial sanctions against russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible .
gdp almost tripled during the last 20 years , yet , with real wages increasing at less than half that rate , growth has itself decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . more than half of middle-income households spend more every month than they earn . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , its fertility rate has fallen to its fourth lowest among advanced economies , and its homicide rate is the highest in the oecd . south korea , for two key reasons , is in trouble . the signs of social distress are proliferating .
whereas the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its anti-terrorism capacity is probably higher . it is precisely to prevent the development of the collective security concern that we need to change the equilibrium between safety and liberty . this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” tapping telephony lines , and identifying individuals deemed to be highly dangerous . police actions must be merciless , even if this means taking more control and court-supervised . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a policy maturity that allowed it to disavow bush ’s ’s ’s manichean worldview , which has merely reinforced , rather than undermined , enemies of fanaticism .
whereas in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from the paid-day loan industry , making most of its profits from lending at high interest rates to people without alternative when they desperately need cash . mulvaney , too , devoted considerable time over the last two years to compromised safeguards that the consumer-finance bureau has previously attempted to implement in order to avoid some of the industry ’s worst abuses . ross should read the mehrsa ’s informative book on how the other half of the banks , and reflect on high credit costs for lower-income families . or it could have just asked mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief of staff . as the us government shutdown lengthened , the stock price of payday loans surged .
seoul – the overwhelming military revolution is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu buddhist caihou , a ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to allow the country to grant military aid to its asian allies . despite the rising regional tensions that inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to a direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to resolve their disputes in new , more creative ways if that outcome should be avoided . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has to do with a fundamental source of fragility in the banking system , one that we can and must design an existential moment . to do that , we must advance the state of our own financial technologies . in a severe financial crisis , banks are finding that the falling market value of many of their assets leaves them short term for capital . they can not raise much more capital during the crisis , so to restore capital-adequacy ratios , stop making new loans , and call in their non-performing loans , thereby shedding the whole economy – if not the whole global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technicalities , because it is the solution that we have been .
but it maintained that islam is an indispensable component of the chechen tradition , and he presented himself as a leader who fully grasped this . kadyrov also catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . he rejected wahhabism – the ideological framework of the jihadists . so he encouraged the islamic dress code and established a giant mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe . yet having enjoyed massive subsidies from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , giving it some security .
afghanistan poses specific difficulties in the reconstruction process , because it is not a society with a strong political center . the education system needs to be rebuilt nearly from scratch , and with so many women anxious about their return to instruction , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians win a powerful workers lobby . roads , airports , and communications systems must also be revitalized if trade is to be rebuilt . roads , airports , and communications systems must also be revitalized if trade is to recover .
indeed , it is the capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for both banks ’ divergent approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood by idly as the economy collapsed , is the molding event surrounding every american central banker ’s consciousness . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical , of course . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cutting took effect , predicting a major contraction in us unemployment , or that faster us economic growth would once again recover to brisk rates . on the contrary , “ a catastrophic turn toward austerity ” ruined millions of jobs and shattered many lives , ” he argued , with the american congress exposing the “ imminent threat of severe economic harm from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks a long way off , ” he warned . i would raise all of this for granted , as krugman took a victory lap in his end-of-2014 column on the obama recovery . – and i ’m starting to worry that it may never happen .
even though many are in trouble , it is probably not the best time to start a new car company , either . the group ’s initiative , chaired by räsänen , is called ecars – now ! a small operation in finland is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring with the online hope . yet while the market for new automobiles has slowed dramatically , it might have been a good moment for starting a business replacing gasoline engine with general electric . borrowing from a recommitment to software movement , räsänen and his colleagues want to make the idea and basic free of designs , and have encouraged a lot of companies everywhere to implement it locally .
the united states with a government that can hardly be described as the weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . relative to these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya appear like the height of his success . but i believe that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that nobody has ever developed precisely the precise way to measure whether and to what extent a government is effective . if effective use of effectiveness is the ability to achieve all of a society ’s goals , we probably never find such a thing .
these and other financing streams have helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology for learning . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . in 2003 , the african union and new partnership for africa ’s development initiated the continent-wide strategy “ to develop and deploy science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and to integrate it into the global economy . ” on previous occasions , africa ’s leaders pooled their science resources .
london – in just five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the fundamental causes of the subsequent financial crisis – excess debt . official projections in the spring of 2009 predicted neither a slow recovery nor a full-blown crisis that was essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would have fueled a knock-on crisis in europe . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to anticipate the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was guaranteed so long as inflation was low and stable . and that is why , once the immediate crisis erupted , the us failed to warn itself of how painful its consequences would be . and it is precisely why economic recovery has gone far more slowly than anyone expects ( indeed , in some countries , not at all ) .
this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration on where the two sides hope to an end . and , for some of those in the ostensibly leave ” camp , it is a route to an exit without falling off a cliff edge . a third “ phase one ” agreement at phase two will center around a roadmap for uk-eu relations after 2021 . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk to remain in the eu in all but name . a big difference now is that the uk will lose votes at the table .
fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . the islamic world is riven by disputes between the arab and the non-arab , sunni and shia , and salafi extremists and theological moderates . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as an individual ’s relationship with his or her god ; muslims view this as an organizing social principle . al qaeda ’s agenda owes as much to the creation of a new islamic caliphate as it deals with waging jihad against the west . muslims find it hard to understand how we can believe our society is even civilized when both pornography and drunkenness appear openly .
with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe , it was forced to withdraw to the frontier that it had extended a westphalian post since peter the great – ultimately the elbe and thuringia . so why did the eu press for an association agreement without being able to offer ukraine anything comparable to the one russia has offered ? the answer can be found in the relations between europe and russia . yanukovych has always been the kremlin ’s ally , the european union . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s ’s ’s pro-european orange revolution , defeating his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keeping ukraine in the russian camp .
the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was linked to weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . less evidently , a country does not want misguided or nonsensical change ; it wants investments that appear to be as productive as it is . what is required for high performance by high performance ? for employees to develop , they must be imbedded in a stimulating workplace with new problems that can solve , hard tasks for which they must be mastered , added capacity to strive . essentially , it is productive change that i call “ economic dynamism . ”
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will demand new distortionary measures . new public-interest concepts are also necessary for regulating new channels of public information , such as social networks . second , standard perspectives on business income and taxation of wealth will have to be adapted to account for firms ’ ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws meant to protect private-sector information should be reevaluated to ensure that they are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating and manipulating it . above all , the public needs to develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , particularly the technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching lives of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third , “ humanitarian ” military operation in the same number of years , this time in the central african republic , “ interventionism , ” which seemed discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq , appears to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires no more than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism goal , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection to the ongoing united nations declaration of deliberations . a military operation might also be referred to the un security council , but only after the fact , when the council ’s decisions can no longer make a meaningful difference on events on the ground . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have altered the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their achievability , rather than merit . to grasp how this shift has occurred to see why , more often than not , such interventions have failed to attain its aims .
he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failures , because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth . the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models make them useful in explaining both the price mechanism and the equilibrium or imbalances of key aggregate economic variables . but both models are unable to describe or analyze genuinely the behavior of key market participants . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony , a tradition dating , at least to adam smith , that prized the grand and unifying set of theories for the political economy and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with the reductionist and mechanical models appears to have propelled the profession from theory to ideology , throwing it out of touch with the real economy .
the question now is how to regulate access to gene sequence data is cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the un food and agricultural organization . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , the main treaty regulating access to biological diversity . after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not just facilitate sharing ; they enable stealing . the next meeting ( by cop 13 ) will take place at cancún , mexico in early december . participants at policeman 13 must focus on the need to protect the rights of resource providers .
demand growth at a pace that in any earlier decade would continue to be widely satisfactory suddenly , and bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack labor market that has resulted . but , for all but bush – and those left unemployed by a lag in demand – this is an extraordinary opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it is today , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies – especially given that one powerful effect of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications has made it much easier to participate in a worldwide labor-centered division . the remarkable boosts to productivity in america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating the growth of both actual profits and real wages , if only american policymakers are resisting the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging , measures to “ protect ” your output and employment . as the world ’s de-linked economies , america faces the hardest work in ensuring its growth ; for it must create – not only copy and adjust – new technologies , superior forms of capital , and more productive business organizations .
earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than focusing on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , it – and like-minded companies such as impossible foods – are working to help lower overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . to avoid another public backlash , they must compel such platforms to serve not only as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , laborers , and citizens . at a time of unprecedented global challenges , including climate change and the high level of inequality , this must include the use of platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . that is propelling the latest migration transformation in the corporate stakeholdership , has focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge at buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference . with the united states historically bound the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set in motion unlike either of the latter . the wto ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy , and there is much less reason for it . some kinds of deals are typically delivered but only at the last moment , and its language is often vague . this time may well be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even the symbolic bargain they can tout as an aggressive marketing campaign .
by obscuring the role local populations played by local populations in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help to advance nationalist narratives that can prove a very handy for politicians seeking popular support . the pis , for one , has historically accrued substantial electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . poland introduced such a law in 1998 , hungary . there are more extreme cases than poland .
instead , the reform proposals opted for a mix of higher capital requirements on leading banks and pre-funding of deposit insurance through a special levy on banks . there seems little appetite for proposals to regulate capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . as is frequently emphasized , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” this would enable capital buffers to establish in good years , which could then be pulled down in bad years . admittedly , there are difficulties with every proposal to restrict the space of a “ risky ” banking sector , particularly in keeping with a global economy with free capital mobility .
new york – america ’s patient protection and the affordable care act ( obamacare ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has , in fact , succeeded in extending insurance coverage to the millions of americans who might otherwise have it . and , contrary to the critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed through health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is far from assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , especially in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debates with india over intellectual property . and it is here that obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study for the great depression in the united states , have shown convincingly that economies in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new sectors . if both old and new sectors of the economy are in the slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment might stall . slashing the state sector anew , and expecting the process of transformation through austerity , is not the way forward . indeed , robust aggregate demand has always been vital to a successful transformation . likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and allow for resources to be redirected to new sectors facilitating service and urbanization ; but this would exacerbate , at least at first – today ’s demand shortfall .
london – how radically will digital currencies change our exchange methods and how we think about money ? with the innovations of digital payments barreling ahead , these questions are now holding back the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is about to end in failure . indeed , while achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states incapable of preserving even the façade of a “ peace process , ” which has been all taking steps and no peace to offer . negotiations are failing on several grounds , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , notwithstanding opposition from the international community , including the american jerusalem . if anything , israel has actually accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalation of its demands , particularly regarding israeli military stationing in the jordan valley . and this might not yet be such a bad thing .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and as a lawyer advocating khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . he has subsequently been disbarred , and himself was arrested in april 2006 . her appeal was refused , because was her earlier plea to suspend her sentence until her two tiny sons lived in the age of 14 , a request that she was entitled to make under russian law . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids for which treatment had been withheld . in december 2008 , a court in moscow approved his release to bail of 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at the time ) .
moreover , they need it to do so by the end of the year in order to prevent further damaging from the large tariff hikes that are currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline requires that the two sides begin to take immediate symbolic , substantive steps . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text , say , the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove america ’s tariff provisions after a treaty is signed , and for unilaterally reimposing tariffs if america concludes that china is not honoring the agreement . and it should add to this a commitment that china fulfills the treaty in ways that are “ in line with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are , by marching the well-worn path of industrialization . the progression of manufacturing-based industries – textiles , steel , automobiles – emerged from the ashes of traditional artisans and guild systems , the transformation of urban dwellers . peasants became factory workers , a process that underpinned not only the unprecedented rise of economic productivity , but also the wholesale revolution in social and political organization . the labor movements led the way in mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . over time , manufacturing ceded its room to services .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
and , of course , this average does not include the fukushima disaster . indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , nuclear power ranks higher than that of oil , coal , and natural-gas systems in terms of fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . there have been 57 accidents since the 1986 chernobyl disaster . while only a few involved fatalities , those who collectively killed more people than did have died in business america ’s own airline accidents since 1982 . another nuclear-power bond index , this one including cost beyond childhood death and property damage , such as wounded or irradiated labor and non-resident malposts , who resulted in shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents , from 1942 to 2007 .
there can be little doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of us leadership . there is little doubt that this will benefit russia and china , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of us leadership . in contrast to some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , rising to eastern germany , has been wary of russia ’s strategic designs . russia is closer to berlin or even to paris than to washington or to new york . this might no longer be so easy , once the us is no longer perceived as a dependable protector and fearful of a china turning into a panic .
and that would go hand in hand with a colombian accord that addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gays , and many of the millions displaced by more than a half-century of fighting . at the same time , negotiators decided that there was no alternative to the unconditional application of justice . for uribe and his opposition allies , a key objection to the treaty concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . but , if a deal is negotiated well , the end result has yielded significantly more benefits than costs . the deal has also involved an historic land-reform program .
for example , the u.s. went mistaken in invading iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join in the fight against isis and saved the yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to cut the city to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad 's regime by force , because the forces opposed to assad lacked the popular support they needed , and the u.s. was unprepared to help them win that support . on the contrary , helping syrian kurds have been a good idea because they have been effective fighters with strong backing from their own people ; and they probably would not have survived as part of an isis caliphate . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen the south korean and sudanese defenses , but evidently wrong with threatening a nuclear war .
the trouble began with the end of the cold war , when the collapse of a bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as market triumph . as communism was discarded , so was the idea of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions can be organized . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identity derives not from class interests or other sociological characteristics , but from market logic , which dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , a consumer , or voter . indeed , in short order , economics was founded on a mudestal and enshrined in a council of institutions such as the central bank and the competitive authorities , intentionally separate and make independent from politics .
madrid june , the turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s new democracy remains intact . indeed , while some grievances regarding transparency have emerged during the campaign process , turkish democracy has prevailed , with an astounding 86 % of eligible voters turning away , a rate rarely seen in europe . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens have been denying the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needed to amend its constitution . moreover , by expelling the people from the kurdish democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – more than 10 % of the vote , they have enabled the party to enter parliament for the first time , with eu-wide representation , not just in kurd-majority districts . the rest of the world – and especially the european union – should take note .
germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come . in order to distribute a burden more equitably , germany has attempted to have a european quota system instituted to allocate its applicants among the eu ’s member countries . but germany ’s ’s ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” frequently , arab families send their minors into germany , in the not-unreasonable hope of obtaining the right of other family members to follow through on the sidelines . if an application is successful , a refugee has the right to bring his or her family members together .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ ’ presidential race need to understand that national opinion polls provide no precise picture of how the election could turn out . one state is awarded a certain number of votes on an electoral college depending on the size of its population . in nearly every state , a candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote each year is awarded 100 % of its electoral rolls . the candidates who cross the threshold of a 270 electoral college vote win would win the presidency . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it ’s not who wins the equivalent of a single votes nationwide that matters , ultimately , who wins in which states .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve may start exiting a zero policy rate later this year has fueled fears of renewed volatility in emerging economies of their currencies , the bond , and stock markets . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , together with a ensuing likely rise in the dollar ’s value , might worry , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ ’ ’ ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 its exit from quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shockwaves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies . because all has borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they will now confront a genuine re-nationalization of these debts , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby pushing their debt-service costs further . but , though the prospect of the fed raising interest rates probably creates significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risk of outright crises and distress is more limited .
indeed , under chirac , france seems increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model – very accusations so often have levelled to oppose george w. bush ’s america . chirac has compounded his misfortunes over iraq in his approach to the european commission ’s new institution . confronted with american unilateralism , he has utterly failed to encourage a realistic , multilateral solution . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france has become powerfully represented , with pascal lamy clinging to a trade portfolio . on the contrary , despite being right about iraq , chirac has become isolated , an isolation that has grown because he has also failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush .
first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including delivery and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – rely on uninterrupted supplies . and the expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources further . urgent action is urgently needed to ensure that they access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . governments should take the lead in making careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources .
whereas iran ’s leaders often downplayed the sanctions ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran faced similar economic difficulties before – in the 1980 ’s , with its oil exports slumped considerably amid the country ’s eight-year war with iraq , with global oil prices extremely low – and handled them relatively well . four factors have rendered the us oil embargo especially unbearable today . first , prohibiting us oil exports became more difficult as world oil prices climbed . ahmadinejad has benefited from a massive increase in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt parties , the israelis would say ; it has also thrown israel ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear deterrence capacity is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which championed the nuclear opacity strategy , both perceive themselves as nuclear states and want the world to accept that status . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its arab neighbors or the rest of the world about its nuclear program unless the political environment changes in a radically positive way . ultimately , across-the-board nuclear equality can only boost iran ’s nuclear concerns .
protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been captured flat-footed . they want to maintain bathing in press coverage ; but , if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists are perceived as hindering delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . the genius of china ’s mini-movement ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when – or what – it will happen next . whatever the ultimate economic effects of china , ’s first modest step toward shifting its currency , one has to admire its strategic brilliance . but no one really knows whether the china ’s one-child step is the start of something much larger , as the china authorities have hinted one day and deny another .
one of his close political allies recently declared that should the un security council approve military intervention in syria , france , perhaps participating in that effort . hollande is unlikely to be less friendly with america than was sarkozy , considering many as france ’s most pro-european president . and here , obama , in particular , will soon grasp that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will emerge as a reliable , unsurprising partner . hollande backed a military intervention in libya in 2011 and joined the condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime .
deflation -- a steady ongoing decline in the price level -- has given firms and consumers powerful incentives to cut spending and hoard cash . it has reduced the ability of firms and banks to service their debt , and it could unleash a chain of big bankruptcies that destroys confidence in the financial system , provides additional incentives for hoard . such powerful incentives for hoard rather than spend can keep up with demand low and fall , and , for a much longer time , unemployment than even a most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist has ever dared contemplate . hence , keynesian solutions : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and reduced taxes ) to keep the economy from approaching the precipice where deflation becomes possible . but if this is an issue solved well over fifty years ago , why is it ripped up us now ?
millions of children are undernourished and outside of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened by exploitation , abuse , and worse . the united nations , with its support from countries like sweden , and through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef , has the help of suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises is tested that the system is just as never before in place . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality , and it is nothing less . and , of the 50 million children living outside of their own countries or have been internally displaced , over half have been forcibly uprooted , and are facing new threats to their own lives and well-being .
given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , thereby putting pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will also depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . next month ’s un climate summit should provide just such a moment , with countries committing to step up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . to this end , a african country coalition , with support from the un economic commission for africa and the new climate economy , is working to facilitate the meaningful , coordinated action that puts the continent on a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . partnership with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process .
widespread instability in social relations – most importantly , not only in employment – becomes intolerable for a growing segment of the population in many developed countries , not only in europe . and there can be no way to create a stable economic order , at least not in a democratic country , as long as electorates reject its underpinnings . the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , on all the evidence , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than it was a rejection of europe . capitalism might have been reconstituted after world war ii because it buttressed three kinds of regulation : social security that served as a principal stabilizer ; at least in advanced countries ; keynesian instruments to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which a genius of free capitalism – mass production , does not work . but the realignment of the wealthy , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists like milton friedman , which started around 1970 , broke with whatever .
in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target rate for inflation , because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions in this way , ” ” which would “ reduce uncertainty . ” announced rates should be substantially positive , they wrote , because if officials try to push it towards zero , any mistake might result from deflation that “ might put the financial system at risk and precipitate economic contraction ” ” ” . inflation targeting has other effects , too , which seems more on central bankers ’ minds . at the same time , in an age of internet news and fake news , the world today may look a bit unmoored from history . that , in turn , might create a sense of real risk .
berkeley – with its ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , china has made a clear objective of securing global economic leadership in advanced tech industries . this places it in direct competition with the united states , which is currently at the forefront , in those industries , in what emerges as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . with its investments in such “ dual-use ” technologies , china crafts more than to compete commercially with america ; it also seeks greater military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed numerous methodologies – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese counterparts , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from america and other us trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
warsaw – the berlin wall fell , brought down german reunification , and yugoslavia . already , chinese financial markets suffered , while those in the u.s. held their own . the chinese financial markets already suffered , while those in the u.s. held their own . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which , along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves resolutely in the west , by joining nato and the eu . but an american – who has been relatively less reliant on foreign markets – possesses deeper domestic markets and is generally more economically resilient than other countries – would do a better job than most others in a contracting global economy .
the esm is ireland ’s collateral policy as we work our way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) rolling back the markets . the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy , helping to stabilizing the euro , our currency . it would boost confidence in iran and enable the us to increase the existing flow of inward foreign direct investment . ratification would also give us guaranteed access to financing by the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need . most importantly , a fiscal treaty promises that we make responsible eurozone-wide budgeting .
in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . in the short term , young companies should view the ethics of their actions not as a marketing gimmick , but as a kernel of concern . following exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many do not have a full grasp of the myriad issues that need to be considered . it is a difficult subject to addressing , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or any kind of review process , involving people who can assess all of the consequences of a great-sounding idea .
traditional versus modern , city versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but all too often , clichés become established because they are in fact true . bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to shahbag protesters than to a hifazat counter-demonstrators . but it must navigate the difficult road , because both point and point of public support . the shahbag young people are mostly urban , educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor .
true , the true bombshell was a sudden realization of the threat that digital currencies pose to the incumbent monetary system , not at a certain date , but right now . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none was adopted widely enough to challenge the existing order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that . now that the company has shed down the gauntlet , governments should take advantage of the chance to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good .
why has the great recession , and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan , not elicited a similar reaction today ? before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations among the cold war superpowers struck rock bottom . reagan and i could nonetheless establish a reservoir of constructive spirit via constant outreach and face-to-face interaction . economic constraints , as well as the chernobyl catastrophe , helped spur us into action . today , what seems to be missing are leaders with the boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
throughout europe , it is not just british prime minister tony blair who is accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same accusation in germany ’s current election campaign . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even qualify as prime minister . august is the traditional month when the parliaments recess for the summer . it offers a moment to investigate why they are so enfeebled .
as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments and are easily irreversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom-bust cycles and boom-bust cycles . second , it is doubtful that a new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency about short-term capital flows , increases rather then systemic risk . the narrowing of national autonomy to formulate a development strategy carries costs that developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . first , a new set of external disciplines are drawing hand-in-hand with a special , neo-liberal model of economic development that remains untested , and will foreclose the development strategies that worked in the past with others that might work in the future .
if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . numerous news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are encoded with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their entire new roles ( and thus do not merit them ) , inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and thus do not put the reins of power ) , or will not be there for long . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also reduce the value of their companies . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . for example , the cnn has covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder , ” a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never have been applied to an individual at the top for whom , presumably , hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack ” .
state-owned enterprises continue to be favored , the books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . how long this will last is anyone who would expect . the dynasties arrived and go so far , but in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding . few observers expected that china would once again transform itself into a full-fledged democracy after its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has nonetheless been disappointing .
nevertheless , one has to wonder about a victorious movement with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are unlikely to obtain permission to enter the country in which they have been elected in order to ensure that a new parliament can not function properly . more recently , elections in europe ’s post-communist countries have brought groups into power , whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . all of this tells us three things about democracy in the eu . first , elections rarely solve fundamental problems ; in fact , they are different . this is not to compare hamas directly or either of these political forces .
the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle within ordinary russians ’ breast , with no slightest dissonance . that is one reason why lugovoi is being asked about his autograph . but only one such “ patriot ” has been accorded the honor of being allowed to perform this act . evidently , we are confronted by the mystery of the russian thought that has proven so inimical to others , so unappealing to any analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians have written at a length . this should not be taken to mean , of course , the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s ’s achievement admitting justice .
moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments need to invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early-childhood education . only by supporting the establishment of human capital from an early age can we ensure that single-generation inequalities are n’t passed on to the next . and because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequality traps . only by supporting the establishment of human capital from an early-age can we ensure that single-generation inequalities are n’t passed on to the next . · such investment will require complementary domestic sources .
spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the start of the crisis . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . some , it should be stressed , are being made . greece has slashed its spending by larger amounts relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii .
but the aftershocks linger : the household-debt loads were still operating near 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % for the final three decades of the twentieth century ) ; and the personal-saving rate averaged a mere 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . on balance-sheet repair , us consumers failed to take the bait of their monetary and fiscal authorities . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures averaged just 0.8 % in the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in consumer demand growth in the post-world war ii era . two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families were borrowing freely , have long since burst . instead , they have slashed their returns on spending .
while his motivations , at least partly , may have generated a yearning for social justice , perón had been , in effect , bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though the move toward autarky ultimately undermined growth , causing the country to lose its position among the world ’s ’s richest . with his beautiful , elongated wife – a “ woman of the people ” – at his side , perón managed to designate voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally transform the country . perón ’s administration nationalized banks and railroads , increased the minimum wage and improved living standards , lowered the national debt ( perón , to some extent ) , and reformed the economy . as good as his word was , he was .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap will sound unconvincing , because the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme credibility problems . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s ’s ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political tumult set to continue for the foreseeable future . not hard to imagine the next administration – whenever it looks at brazil – perceiving the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth .
here is one novelty from markets merit pondering even for non-investors : political confidence may be at the low ebb in europe ; business and consumers might be shell-shocked by a final recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by the market ’s behavior over the years ahead to resemble the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden many decades , from 1973 through 1989 to 1989 . a strange conventional wisdom developed in the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that robust economic growth and falling unemployment was bad for stock prices . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering a stock-market rout . while experts spent the past two years propounding this thesis that markets have quietly reinstated older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for returns , and therefore good for equities . part of that can be explained by misunderstanding of the relationship between stock-market prices and economic growth .
elsewhere , the nigerian grouping of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( llr ) has used its agenda over several years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance , owing to the country ’s opening to democracy . * sound economic analysis , with backpapers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
the imf predicted thailand and others to achieve positive growth in 1998 ( 3 percent in thailand ’s case , for instance ) . now the imf recognizes that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . the imf has mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to disburse back foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds . its medicine has done very little to rescue the economy , which is to develop it . the currencies have collapsed , and the banking sector has collapsed .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s capacity to get things done abroad does something more than trying a distraction ; he also sends the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right that they are wrong . the obama administration knows the iron law of american domestic policy – “ it ’s the us economy , stupid ” – like anyone else . obama has done a far better job in foreign policy than in domestic policy , all the more surprising given the weak hand that he has dealt with : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as the economic model . so , expect a lot of foreign-policy news in the months to come .
europeans , however , are only one facet of europe ’s urgent need for populist importation of people from africa and asia . this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors ’s rigors ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it is the only route european governments can stay afloat financially . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have discussed for ten years or more is now exploding . europeans will also see dismantling their welfare states and social-security systems ; the cherished “ european model ” of pensions , health , healthcare , and unemployment benefits in ways that the eu has despised and widely feared “ america ’s model . ” indeed , the root cause of all these developments is europe ’s populist shrinkage .
the trouble is this : in most cases , it will . and they watch with gao at how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of the discord . they sense their support in their conviction that for most western governments , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of doing business . should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its pprovocations ? the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short shunning military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , require the degree of international solidarity that is generated only by extraordinary circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european economic recovery . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” ” ” and genuinely seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . that largely explains why germany is routinely cited as examples of a strong , “ competitive ” market economy . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is being driven by productivity growth rather than the ability to capture an increasing share of global markets . while imports must of course be financed with exports , the focus on trade competitiveness is drawing attention from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cell , the united states 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” in nevada ) , and european just 4 % . and the more relevant such battery cells are on the global value of electric cars , the stronger its agglomeration effect will go . far from being a major player in global knowledge , this would be a momentous shift . china currently controls the entire value chain for electric cars , including delivery of cobalt , an vital raw material in the battery production . but europe could still develop battery production through recycling of old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
governments that make it their central goal of maximizing human well-being end up not only encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing more healthier politics . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to modify their thinking – in particular , their fiscal thinking – to put the people first . and while there is a surge in “ tech for a good ” industry in europe , that will succeed only if it is supported by up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays . meanwhile , governments need to reduce bureaucratic red tape , so that entrepreneurs can take on more risk . but breakthroughs in technology companies like apple , facebook , and whatsapp also depend on people accessing well-funded education schemes .
for example , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively able to block an agreement to open up new markets to services and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of employment . the initiative will have to come by if the case is to be made within each country for more open markets , with the help of those facing adjustment . in developing nations , pro-trade voices could help to turn the debate toward opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exceptions . all countries will need to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . in fact , pro-trade forces can speak of a political process .
but iranian critics of intervention apparently believe that there is a kernel . inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , as well as a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states , do not necessarily translate into lost iranian influence . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach might trigger a long list of dangerous consequences . indeed , iran ’s prompt backing of iraq ’s shia-led government has been aimed partly at spurring competition from its regional adversaries . iran has already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a wider policy reconsideration is needed to quell the is menace , so be it .
at houston , us authorities were poised for a harvey in charge of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm had caused 1,833 deaths , whereas at least 88 had been killed as a result during harvey . the impact of the lessons that have been learned in india is all the more striking . in october 2013 , odisha state residents were alert early to the arrival of cyclone phailin . by the time the storms made landfall , large numbers of people had already evacuated .
for catalan separatists , this means that they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of declining nationalism . given this , the status quo is volatile and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . if catalonia wishes to exit spain , why should n’t n’t barcelona have a right out of catalonia ? and why would n’t today would-be desperately oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors in order to prevent this from occurring ?
such activity is not just unjust ; it is a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 adopted almost unanimously last year ( america , then headed by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution has demanded that israel instantly and receive full stop all settlement activities in the occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem ” – activities that amount to a “ flagrant violation under international law . ” any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions on both sides – a concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to embrace . even that some futile scenario might turn out to be optimistic , for it assumes that the talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seems to understand this .
in doing so , however , china is not openly calling into question the foundations of the liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are not prepared to risk the foundations of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi christened “ the century ’s project ” – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to cement its commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , to seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” the remarkable communiqué from the world leaders attending the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to foster “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , and women ’s empowerment . ”
the question , then , is whether or not the new leaders , as early as next month , would succeed in making a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms the enlarged union demands . the best way forward would be to focus on the essentials . part iii the blocked constitutional treaty is simply the compendium of current eu treaties , which imply that such treaties will remain in force , regardless of whether they are part of a new paper , could be decoupled from the rest . part ii of a stalled paper , the eu charter can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful , because , because eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without a clearly defined set of fundamental rights .
but , for europe , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is needed today more than ever , and it is much stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . in the longer term , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . this is as true of the peoples of europe . as the world changes and opens across the boundaries of nation and culture that values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget about the primacy of short-term electoral politics in france or in germany .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . similarly , a couple of months ago , two police vice ministers , transportation ministries , and former ceo of the us state petroleum company were all brought to court on charges of state sales of state assets to private companies at loss-making ones . taken together , these cases highlight the very level of state capture – a form of corruption , rife – in the former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to win control of public institutions and assets .
a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . the fdp , for its part , would like to participate in such a government for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s own red-green affinity . a minority coalition that included the greens would compel the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policies that would be useless otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . and merkel herself would attempt to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to prevent it from becoming aid-dependent .
china is still a lower-middle-income country , with a per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , at one fourth of that in the united states . though beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much poverty remains . one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit cards to buy around $ 1 billion worth of goods that they could n’t obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of those european and american branded goods actually are manufactured in china ) . chinese corporations ’ high levels of indebtedness might be the harbinger of financial instability , even though a few officials stressed that they are not afraid . it is revealing that achieving the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating poverty by 2020 requires the reduction of the world ’s poor by about 55 million , a poverty line defined as just $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar a day .
another explanation is the fear of contemplating the unknown . but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historic record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from the reading leon trotsky who came to recognize something of revolutions . dictatorships are considered indestructible before their decline ; trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed once overthrown . yet the record of democratic transitions from 1974 indicates that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . ccp rule might not last , but an alternative – state-sanctioned state and civilian chaos could be much worse than the status quo .
after moving on to produce automotive audio facilities , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , has started hearing complaints from local hospitals on the soaring expense of specialized x-rays , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machines ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , another business was born . neusoft ’s devices looked like little personal computers with the sensors attached . neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to an oracle company . liu realized that neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a range of digital sensors .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not just in the eurozone , but across all of europe . there are structural reasons for this change , too . across germany , long-missing debates about german identity have been used – to what one historian called “ the continual revolt ” over what to become germany might mean . on foreign-policy terms , however , post-war west germany – and , to a lesser extent , the reunified germany – was utterly predictable : never opposed to the west ; always for more europe . now , the “ republic of berlin ” is very secure about its identity and ostensibly offshore in its dealings with the world .
as he puts it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risk … . we must forgive the mistakes that have been made because someone has tried to play aggressively into corporate interests . ” tom watson , jr. , who directed ibm through decades of strong growth , is well known for having fueled brilliant blunders . while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for the next four or more years , those that could have managed breakthrough innovations . and the oversight that warkelvin forecast – the possibility that the fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within earth ’s farmland – has turned out to be critical of understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . indeed , startup companies recognize the potential benefits of risk-taking .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur its all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . with or without question , the greatest threat come from netanyahu , the middle east .
russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by the sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move that originally bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also been inflamed by the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which involves raising the retirement age . now , more than ever , putin needs an american friendship . though reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted , to around 45 % . on putin ’s view , he rooted for trump ( he certainly did n’t intervene in trump ’s name ) on the grounds that he shared a desire to improve the bilateral relationship .
in south korea , the imf urged selling the country ’s banks to american investors , even as koreans succeeded their own economy impressively for four decades , with higher levels of growth , more stability , and without the systemic scandals that have marked america ’s financial markets with such frequency . in some cases , american firms bought off the banks , held on them until korea recovered , and then resold , reaping billions of dollars in capital gains . in its rush to have westerners buy the banks , the imf forgot one detail : to ensure that south korea could recover at least a fraction of these gains through taxation . whether american investors had more banking expertise in emerging markets might be debatable ; to be sure , they had greater expertise in tax avoidance . to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) gains from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in , because it flow out , and in a restructuring that occurs in the ensuing havoc .
princeton – on june 1 , derek parfit , one of the greatest philosophers of my generation , died . of all the philosophers that i knew since i began studying the topic more than 50 years ago , parfit was the proximate to his genius . parfit was not a household name , but he was . getting into a philosophical argument regarding him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had already thought through every response that i could set up to his arguments , considered a few possible replies , and recognized the objections of every reply at him as much as the best counters for such objections . just over a year earlier , in a poll on a prominent philosophy website , parfit voted the most consequential living anglophone philosopher .
on paper , the hospital seems well staffed and adequately equipped , but on my trial there , i found halls and wards deserted , and barren . few of the therapeutic and diagnostic options available there have been for any number of people . even an essential test , like a cat scan , require transport to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest barrier to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivities on its own policy failures and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted .
but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain much lower under the latter strategy than in a situation where the israeli labor market is progressively gradually reopened for palestinian work . comparing the outcomes of the two sieges suggests that large palestinian labor export inflows into israel reduces the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . such simulations also suggested that continued reliance on exporting labor to the palestinian economy on a lower growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . this confirms the enormous short-run welfare cost to a palestinian society of curtailing palestinian workers ’ access to the israeli labor market . so what trade policies might boost exporting of goods more than labor ?
and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . addis ababa , when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many had hoped that the economic fallout he oversaw would soon be reversed . yet , a year and a half later , the economy is showing no signs of recovering , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what travails zimbabwe ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
clearly , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing the architect whose name has carried such dark historical connotations . china trusts that it has found its own model for the development and modernization process , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev did as a means to “ sell ” their model to a global audience . but , in this case , with a son borrows vital components of his father , ’s architectural principles , and serves a regime that seeks to use the games to its advantage , on some of the same grounds that animated hitler , is it not voluntarily reflecting those sins ? the name of speer itself probably did n’t matter to the officials with whom he selected it . the totalitarian regimes then the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese were all seeking to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world its supremacy .
the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it stands for lofty and universalism . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called for constitutional patriotism ( others have called “ civic patriotism ” ) . macron may proudly proclaim himself as a french patriot , because france renounced world liberté , égalité , or fraternité . macron can proudly retorship himself as a french patriot , because france has given world liberté , égalité , and fraternité alike . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called constitutional patriotism ( others have called it civic patriotism ) .
if the icc is to fulfill the role that it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure nor allow its deficient performance to continue . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , unhcr bensouda – must take recent criticism as an motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task . carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay , the icc would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . to succeed , the icc will have to overcome a strong opposition not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , notably us president donald trump . in april , when the icc set out to move forward on its investigation for war crimes in afghanistan , including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked the visa of the court ’s chief prosecutor .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for the next two years . the reasons are clear : as the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries sustain ultra-low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growing emerging economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the depths of the recession . this asymmetry has fueled huge capital inflows from the former to the latter , likely to continue . emerging-market economies worry that this flood of capital will drive their currencies ’ exchange rate , in addition to fueling the current-account and asset bubbles that past experience taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . compounding the problem is the fact that one set of countries that big expansionary policies are the united states , which has the world ’s ’s largest financial sector and issues paramount global currency .
according to the world health organization , it causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 preschool children every year , about half of whom die within 12 months . moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on the high ground , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . the deficiency also increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , still a major cause of death in young children , though one that is declining in the wake of vaccination . in some countries , inadequate vitamin a is also a major factor behind high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , have campaigned against the introduction of the beta carotene , which is converted in the human body of vitamin a.
so what lessons does history need to teach us all about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made a key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general disints . ” mill saw that excess demand for some special set of assets in financial markets mirrored excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated excess supply in labor markets . relieving excess demand for financial assets , you also cured the excess supply of goods and services ( the shortfall in aggregate demand ) and excess supply for labor ( mass unemployment ) . the implication of this was clear .
it is a gap perceived in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s many problems . that is why chan zuckerberg initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funds to flow into nonprofits , directed toward private investment , or being used to help influence policy debates . likewise , bec pledged to boost others ’ work by taking a “ flexible ” approach , creating seed , angel , and series investments , with the expectation that once these investments are in risk-bearing , traditional commercial capital will make its investments into later stages . no single actor able to take its own government , the research laboratory , the ngo , an entrepreneur , or an investor group can solve today ’s truly large problems on its own .
america ’s populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place where a person of economic destiny does not depend fairly on where they came to be born . but a more cynical view permeates populist logic , namely that , in its excessive adherence to globalism , the u.s. has sown the seeds of its own vast political and economic ruin . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who believes that he can put forward something about it . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to shape a system to expand american dominance .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces , and by reestablishing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to the capable force already on the ground , and bringing nuclear arms back to south korea would merely make the two sides more anxious ( and offshore american naval nuclear forces already pack an adequate punch to enhance deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the premise that it could restore communication , thereby diminishing the nuclear threat . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation it needs to remain in power . but under such a scenario , north korea could hold its relations hostage to such outsize demands as america ’s withdrawal of powers from the region and its economic and energy efforts to prop up the regime .
that is why the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most of all , disastrously , venezuela – took a left-wing form . the story is similar in the leading two exceptions to the right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in spain , most migrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground that it had elsewhere . in greece , the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund have provided the main political fault lines .
on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . british and american negotiators secretly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the case by the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for cessation of pariah status . this coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . eight years later , pinned on a american predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
botswana ’s impressive annual per capita income growth of roughly 13 % for the past decade has been accompanied by a drop from almost six children per woman to below four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country-of-living standard ? a growing population has dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . the math is simple : more people means that ( on average ) all of them get less . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in every child ’s education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
but that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . this does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but this does mean understanding that even a democracy has many rules , ideally , rules that a majority chose but mostly are not chosen directly ; those rules generally reflect compromises among the elected representatives who might argue and negotiate in a individual , reflecting the aggregate preferences of the people who elected them . in fact , the modernizers need to form a cohesive force , and most likely a political party , rather than relying simply on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of a crowd to govern the country . like it or not , they can not do so as an hindu child brigade ; they need only pick up leaders who could speak for them and negotiate for them .
rising incomes ; increasingly , a rising number of demand for health care , more childcare , and shade care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new types of job opportunities . in fact , in many of these countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-welfare workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of women ’s future job opportunities ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of future job gains for men ) . considering the secular and occupational distribution of these opportunities , it is possible that women could be slightly better positioned to take ownership of them . assuming that existing gender and secular patterns hold , women could have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to just 19 % for men . this slight benefit for women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented .
moscow : i myself once witnessed putin courting culture . it was november 2003 , on a concert at the newly opened house of the music house in moscow . across the aisle from me , there was putin , who sit between the one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich and his equally renowned wife , the opera diva galina vishvskaya . russia ’s leader at this sort of candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and their proximity to power ) .
by 1998 , when cpi inflation started falling , producer prices had already been declining for eight months , and remained negative for a full perhaps as much as 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . nonetheless , gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy starts taking office in november 1997 . but it was too little too late , when cutting interest rates . an obvious lesson is that governments should switch to loosening earlier and more forcefully .
so have we now move from piketty ’s r > g world to the blanchard world ’s r < g world ? if so , can their views be reconciled ? the answer is neither and yes , and is different . the views of piketty and blanchard can indeed be reconciled , as they speak of different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on rates of low-risk government bonds , piketty speaks to a return to risky capital investment .
but that is not because the banks stand ready to do so by raising more capital . by contrast , compared to their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital recently – and a much of it involved creative accounting rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder equity . perhaps , the risk that greek debt restructuring might have triggered a financial meltdown has always been minimal , and turkish markets are still broadly expected . but , in that case , why virtually all that fuss seems as well ? the banks did not fail , and there is no sign of tumbling .
that way , an economically irrational lock-in effect , whereby workers simply can not afford to make a difference in jobs , outnumber the overall cost . in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and switzerland , government , not individual companies , are held accountable for most welfare benefits . moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short-run periods of unemployment do n’t force workers to sell their homes , or even cars . and , instead of solving all kinds of economically induced private-sector problems , laid-off workers may concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to bail out their mortgages and the interest , but also , indirectly , for the banks , because their loans to households are repaid even in times of recession .
but having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate huge reserves to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has gone missing . while the emergence of financial globalization has not bolstered growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . public investment and fundamental social protection can help to turn this around , by creating millions of new jobs . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the u.s. have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ to attack a family institution , to regard it with contempt , or to doubt its important role , ” the pope and the extremely grand imam of the state , “ is one of the greatest threats evils of our era . ” the document asserts that it is the family ’s potentially fundamental nucleus of society and humanity , and it is essential in bringing the world ’s children , raising it and providing them with robust moral formation and domestic safety .
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is also common knowledge that the world ’s young people are often left behind . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . they frequently confront inadequate economic opportunities , and they can be social or politically excluded . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
while trade has increased , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . russia ’s economic decline has increased its anxiety about a rising china ’s slowdown . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner – more dependent on china than it is on russia . indeed , in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic position in the far east , with russians living six million , and the china-friendly population reaching 120 million , is generating anxiety in moscow . according to meng yujun of fudan , the most important relationship to the us , china is the one with america .
florence – in phaedrus ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s well-known combination on wolf and the lamb , wolf could have eaten the associated lamb with no word , but prefers to fix its “ reasons ” . wolf then snarls that , if not the lamb , he was his father ; after doing so , he immediately moves into action again . first , he scolds are a lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( though wolf has been upstream ) . he then argues that last year , the lamb had him a bad name ( though the lamb was just six months old ) .
arlington , virginia , the election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency over military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not talking about the 2016 american presidential election , which placed donald trump in power , but rather brazil ’s 2018 midterm election , won by the tropics ’ so-called trump , jair bolsonaro , who has formally been inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to iranian interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
she then rushed quickly to give the long celebratory issue about us soldiers ’ heroism “ the fight for freedom ’s ” abroad . that agenda might seem selfish , though understandable from the standpoint of the small oil billionaire . it appeared an odd – and to a lot of the offensive – transition : from the king ’s excellent plea to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the army . but then there was something strange about the entire event , just as there is something strange about the tea party movement itself . this latest surge of american populism is funded by some extremely affluent men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor tax cutting for the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies to the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s medicare plan .
though the levels of their religious commitment vary , they share a strong emotional attachment to a creed that would provide him with substantial political leverage to francis i . making matters worse , latin america will undoubtedly be one of francis ’s priorities . the starting point for his papacy finds populist governments in a vulnerable situation , raided by chávez ’s recent death . of course , they all have their own identity and strengths , but they will miss the defense of chávez ’s global influence , along with his subsidies . moreover , they dominate the countries in which catholics have an overwhelming majority .
but obama can not do it alone , and , until now , neither the american public nor the american congress appears committed to reconnect with his moral compass . that should be unacceptable , with the us congress blocking the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by a panel of national-security officials . not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from the possibility of american surveillance have stirred americans to demand a new approach . the us needs to lead the world , both by deed and by means of example . answering the other major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recapture its economic momentum – seems to be “ no , ” at least in the short run , with most experts agreeing that china ’s exports – and a investment-led growth model have all but exhausted its potential .
this has paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies . to fill the prescription of a drug with a renowned pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can get rapid genotyping to establish an appropriate dose , a drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects . genotyping can now be accomplished by 20 minutes , and over time gets even faster . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing the entire genomic variation – about rarer genomic variations that corrodes treatments or spillover effects . this has paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies .
the financial crisis produced a new answer to where the greatest competitive advantages lie . from the banks ’ perspective , the clearest lesson was the need for a strong national government to bear the potential cost of saving . it is no longer best subject to the most favorable regulatory regime , but it is one that the state has the deepest pockets . very large banks in small regions with small-scale governments are vulnerable . the us is large enough to run behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup .
such searches are far from complete . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , though naming did n’t come under way until peace in the wake of napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . the number of species known for having expired from 1,500 to 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe the new species from the skeletal remains they are finding in caves , for example , where bones will survive . early european exploration has likely continued this rapidly pace of extinction . so far , we have done comparable analyses on the fortunes of the caribbean and the indian ocean islands following early human contact , but large numbers of extinctions occurred there , too .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all address the mix of civil and proxy wars . and europe is already confronting many major challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth . the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden on the countries of the region and europe . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but , alongside other groups , it will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the iran nuclear pact , at best , manages one aspect of iranian power , with only a limited duration .
this year alone , catastrophicheat waves stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have taken lives , destroying billions of dollars of property worth in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . drought struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa experienced major water shortages . these movements have created the space for forward-thinking policymakers to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to rise , showing that we still have a long way to follow .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the u.s. will be vitally important for africa of its continued growth and development . that is just the start of an important dialogue between the us , which is leading the way . the decisions that we make now will have implications for the generations to come . we owe it to our descendants – and to the silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with both the concept and the reality of strategic power . such was clearly the case with france under louis xiv , the sun king in seventeenth-century and such is the case today for china , whose leadership is comfortable with the classical european balance-of-power games . indeed , india is understandably in a very different category , with the population still often still powerful . on economic terms , india has outmaneuvered the way the western world is now looking at it with a mix of respect and greed : “ what kind of deals could i strike at such an emerging market , whose population would soon be the largest of any country in the world ? ” still , to understand india ’s ’s ’s political and diplomatic relations with the outside world , a enlightening comparison is with america in the 1920 ’s .
in the us and europe , for example , those calling themselves a “ conservative ” on economic policy matters believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that free-market economies in their home countries are fair . the contrary holds true for those calling themselves economically “ liberal . ” an even more striking pattern is that americans are consistently overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of a country where actual mobility is low – including the southeastern us states of georgia , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina – in the us . these people favor government intervention because they believe that , left to its own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , and may even generate more inequality . views about social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions .
once upon a time , many relatively small department-store chains and other headquarters retailers spread across american villages and outlets in a handful of towns . these headquarters brought revenues to their city by providing back-office departments to their network of shops . but retail consolidation , pushed in part by walmart and amazon , has dealt the deathblow against many of these companies . the grocer , a retail coffee store , and a barber walk off with business and everybody left , turning the place to a ghost town . the disruption can be caused not just by industrial closing , but by no other way .
the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they can not plug that hole with revenues savings from their own health-care reform plan , or the $ 1.2 trillion expected from the bat . the republicans must now choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the us public debt ) and pursuing much more modest reform . the first scenario , for three reasons , is unlikely . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object with reckless increases in government debt . with the bat lacking the backing even among republicans , it would violate the rules of the world trade organization .
when a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . its net export position and its current-account balance improves , according to official data revision . part of the analytical attractiveness of domestic revenue accounts is adding to them . but that has not happened in this case , either . such resilience will test over the longer run , though , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances that were unaffected by data-revision .
first , when it comes to fighting climate change , what matters is that you are doing something along . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a powerful example of this . countries made a grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above the pre-industrial level ; but all their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what is needed . new analysis shows that just 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their commitments , in most cases because it promises very little . countries that manage that can get away with massaging its data .
that strategy faltered , owing in part to american intransigence under president george w. bush , and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the invading kyoto protocol ( which the u.s. had never signed ) . as a result , the vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could then become uninhabitable . earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories sought to reach legally binding agreements on emissions reductions , at least for the industrialized countries that have produced most of their greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . the eu merely asked countries for voluntary pledges to cut their emissions through specific amounts . undoubtedly , thawing siberian permafrost would release vast amounts of methane gas .
across the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and mandatory consultation when threatening any state ’s safety . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine might have been averted . to be sure , political leaders are justified in blaming the filing from these and other “ eurothinking , ” the archives . but the fault also must be shared with the entire european political class , the civil-society institutions , and the media . though i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is very hard not to be pessimistic , as 2014 comes to the close .
when it comes to solutions , europe lies ahead of the curve . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , the time has come to strike the accelerator . for example , my home country , denmark , which has been tasked with guiding energy talks at the un summit , has integrated vast amounts of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which will run an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free plant . and the progress hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria conducts where it starts green buildings .
prejudice has tended to fall as participation increases . tolerance towards others ’s religion is the price paid for tolerance of one ’s own . one result of the agreement is the paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity ” with the difference . because migrants participate in the american ’s economic and political arenas , americans are accustomed to varying sorts of individuals , and so distinguish those differences that might hurt a country from those that would not . it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and-let-live pragmatism for very long .
based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which has opened up foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is both an aid donor and a major source of private investment in the developing world -- we find ourselves convinced that many of these problems can be labeled , isolated , and fixed . this is why when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark malloch brown have asked us to take the lead on a new commission of private-sector and development , we have agreed . going entrepreneurial energy is already there : just visit a tiniest town in the poorest country on a market day , and see the private sector in action . this keeps small firms in poor nations and regions out of their meager potential . if small firms could expand beyond peasant square , they might drive their countries ' growth better than any assistance agency .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even though it does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . regardless of when a second summit is taking place , the north korean regime will continue to yield dividends at america ’s expense . so far , it has proven highly effective at keeping bromance alive and the forthcoming track summit . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has an established fix on the president ’s own psyche .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly for the young , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also reversed the heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protests ) . meanwhile , the state fails to offer basic security : the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was murdered in a broad daytime hub in kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to prevent his car mirrors from being stolen .
some would argue that all the kingdom needs to do is to substitute saudi for foreign workers in their existing positions . but simple substitution alone will not do ; it will take a bigger hit . under the eu ’s current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plan to privatize societies and improve the civil-service wage level will actually destroy jobs occupied by the saudis . the call for job creation for saudis might seem like a problem of riches . but whenever the kingdom tried to curtail public-sector hiring , unemployment soared .
the notion that hundreds of cryptocurrencies might viably operate together not only contradicts the very concept of money ; it is utterly idiotic . but for money to have value and generate economies of scale , only that individual currencies can operate simultaneously simultaneously . the whole point of money , it is , that it allows parties to transact without having to barter . in the us , the reason that we do n’t use euros or yen in addition to dollars is obvious : doing so would make the economy far less efficient . but so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency might substitute for fiat money .
cool warfare threatens to undermine those efforts , because facing america at the negotiating table requires china to bolster its own standing above all . that means ensuring that the disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism do not present a long-term systemic threat toward china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own status become self-defeating when undermining global stability and dynamism . the trade war has threw that lesson into sharp relief . the unfolding sino-american cold war is far less cutting and drying up than the cold war was .
to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a shared and consistent system to monitor , reporting , and verification ; and provide strong economic incentives on a global scale . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow for swift reduction of global greenhouse gases . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the un “ bonus/malay-based ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new automobiles are taxed or given a bonus depending on the vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the worldwide average of per capita emissions would pay a specified amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalents ) over the established threshold . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that take swift action on climate change could have , including reducing local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation .
three months ago , i argued that every but the minuscule and distressing fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep overall nominal spending growth constant during a downturn and i was right . by buying government bonds for cash , any central bank can satisfy demand and push down money prices . so expansionary monetary policy through the standard antimarket operations of a central bank is the first item on the checklist of what to do during a financial crisis . when there can be no excess demand for cash , there will be no excess supply at all for the bonds and stocks that underpin and finance an economy for ’s productive capital . i was also right to say that every but a tiny and misguided fringe of economists approves of central-bank guarantees of system stability , in order to prevent the risk of a collapse in the payg system from becoming a first-order consideration that boosts monetary demand for unnatural levels .
for starters , it relies on the assertion that by the time the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s disintegration , the west promised not to extend nato . the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall , has accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , the eu is accepting “ the advantage of russia ’s waning ” for asserting “ monopoly leadership and world domination , ” including through nato ’s enlargement . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war-containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s on precisely those grounds . there are obvious limits to this theory , and thus are there .
even while its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , with no doubt conscious of the panglossian view it has offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to an abrupt tightening of financial-market conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched across some markets . ” in this respect , “ some ” is the imf code for the united nations . the international monetary fund has , too , become deeply embedded in the act . the american market ’s share of global equity valuations is the very highest it ever was , a remarkable imf given the declining u.s. share of world economic activity . so , if we are to view all of these warnings as well ?
which the interest rate is the best way to make comparisons is a matter of debate , as is the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use the ten-year government bond differential to offset inflationary expectations . i have also developed what i have called a adjusted gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , through accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone . then , in the summer of course , 6 % is not a particularly significant difference , and this finding might actually mean nothing at all . that is essentially the yield on the euro-dollar exchange rate as of june 7 was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . given that the us dollar was trading at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar is indeed about 6 % weaker than it should be .
the party returned to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated their loan repayments , hoping to hoard their money . the kazakh government , scrambling to encourage its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , had given up and decided to pull the plug . the banks defaulted on their loans , and the creditors took large “ haircuts ” ( a reduction in principal ) . but – and here ’s the tipping point – with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and able to support economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh beginning generated a remarkable turn .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , the us achieves just 8 % of its 760,000 children . this year must be an education ’s moment – a window of opportunity , opened by a new consensus that education is critical for meeting the un ’s sustainable development goals , including reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving the quality of life , and opening our brains to issues of gender equality . but , most importantly , this is a moment of education for education , because it is compelling for the world ’s young people to pursue them . just $ 230 per year per person is available for basic needs like water , food , and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child continues to return to education . when a girl holds the book up an insurgent child ’s gun in pakistan , when adolescent mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda to work education for their children ’s top priority , and when lights saw from space could include child clusters huddled by candlelight efforts to read and study , we know that education has arrived .
for the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east . us president jimmy carter used this to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establish diplomacy between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker has used it to transcend the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . it is time for america ’s america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or halt the syrian civil war on its own . if the american people can not provide that today , it will have to relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution .
by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to terrorists , not only in the balkans but around the world . kosovo is a territory at a far lower level than afghanistan . so , prior to the us-led anti-terror campaign seeks additional terrorist bases to destroy it , it should eliminate terror in an area in which the un itself is ruled . if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves as do the humanitarian values that they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . if the world does not succeed in expelling terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope does it have in defeating terrorism elsewhere ?
the view that an individual gene might account for a fully biological trait is as old as genetics itself . if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior is sufficiently complicated , could it really be any less so with humans ? soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of the “ eugenics movement , ” made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ lungs , ” and “ criminality ” could all be ascribed to individual genes as they do . whether describing genes for the colors of color in pea plants or the shape of the fruit fly ’s wings , geneticists began early in the last century , believing that each gene governed one unique characteristic . as the time passed and scientific knowledge accumulated -- much of it from the fruit fly -- the true complexity of the relation between genes and their characteristics became clear .
like boxing and poker , it is the soft-power , restrained , private form of warfare . and , after all , it is possible for you to have a definitive , utopian society without having your final , scholarly theory of human behavior combined with some peculiarity of mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the whole thing . the problem is that whatever “ scientifically ” these new beliefs were formulated , they are still false . military strategists have already known for centuries that there is , and they can be , no definitive science in wartime . among other things , capitalism has been a struggle between individual people over control of scarce resources .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained debate , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that include a compromise package of immediate reform and a four-month extension of the financial-aid program . but , notwithstanding europe ’s collective sigh of relief , compromise can not preclude the need for further tough negotiations on a new program of financial-aid , which are supposed to be introduced by the end of june . in any negotiations , a key variable affecting the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each . in that case , the cost to greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media across the recent negotiations – with substantial speculation on the stance taken by the various players , particularly greece and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be a highly disruptive outcome , which explains why there is very little support in the country .
consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast ballots in september for their parliament ’s lower house . cnn reported that it “ neither equitable nor free . ” western media judged a election a failed one , at least in may . elections in outsiders for democracy are never quite an option , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any elections in iraq are likely . but electoral flaws are not always the entire picture ; they are part of it .
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , along with access to education and basic health care . but , also a reliable road generates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases between connected areas and myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring up on the path . satisfying the demand for such goods is itself a source of growth . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already possesses a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large , well-educated middle class , and a large number of world-class corporations that can enlist , in an effort , provide those public goods . just as india did away with its stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) contested the 2004 pro-development platform ’s 2004 election , encapsulated in that slogan , “ india shining . ”
yet the berlusconi government did next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a fully five-year electoral term . with its unassailable parliamentary majority , it could take coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension interventions and further increases in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give the right incentives for restructuring , while privatization came to stave off default . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure was unfit to meet new challenges , owing both to firm size and their specialization in traditional sectors , together with low levels of education and r & d.
despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is occurring in black africa : the stealthy rise of a high-technology industry . there are some 1,500 africans who process american health-insurance claims – working about the clock , in three shifts . if not fairly representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of the high-tech industry nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . consider what is happening on a few floors of a single high-rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . africans speak english , a type of at least 50 words a minute on a national computer , take the data from paper claims supplied by american health insurers via e-form satellite , put it in new digital forms , and ships them back into the u.s. .
yet a westphalian system was ruined by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which presage european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious european allies – effectively shut down their sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully , by pooling the national interests of european nation-states . the goal of this effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and a hegemonic head of state . westphalian systems were replaced by a bipolar order wherein sovereignty rested on the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank ’s stress tests . because many banks are holding large quantities of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb evaluates sovereign risk . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . if the ecb grossly understates the risk , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it is more doggedly right about the risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging the holes , and will require northern assistance .
for their part , researchers should take advantage of fully representative test groups , while looking for care to adhere to rigorous privacy and accountability protocols . venture capital firms now devote $ 3.2 trillion annually to global health research and development , respectively . they should also fund competitions among socially conscious tech entrepreneurs to spur more innovations in this field . of course , such new initiatives cost money . they could also expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled mental-health-care delivery technologies .
consider , for example , the harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has been working on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a teacher and a research hospital . yet the teaching-hospital model could be efficient at public policies as well . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” ” ” or on governments in our case .
any sensible international trade regime must begin from recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrain political space countries must design their own economic and social models . any sensible international trade regime must start from recognizing that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrain political space countries must design their own economic and social models . the us had patent laws , only to protect us citizens . and the us had as much about british industrialists ’ trade secrets , as it does today for american intellectual property rights . as one of america ’s business historian put it , americans “ were pirates , too . ”
but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power starts to take shape , marking the beginnings of a new international system . yes , one can debate a third path or both and a half way or the three and a half way ; but these are essentially marginal debates . making all of these changes will be difficult , if not worse , than ever . a second great change – ie , the end of the global ideological divide , also raises troublesome , and arguably more complicated issues . there exists today a basic piece , even on an occasion for a ritualistic , consensus on the idea that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for a political organization with some form of free markets with varying degrees of social responsibility , based on private entrepreneurship , as the foundation for economic activity .
developing bhe would require a new platform of private-sector investment , structured to offer bespoke returns for its diverse participants . it would offer returns close to those yielded through equity investment , but with some downside risk offsetting its long nature . finally , a well-regulated nature of cash flows would enable better predefined returns structures than traditional private or public equity can offer . public donations , a likely backstopped by a multilateral institution , would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . risk would be mitigated further , via the presence of large , influential investors , including sovereign wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions .
capital inflows – which will undoubtedly rise in the years ahead – are driven largely by investors ’ appetite for diversification and high-yield yield , rather than a country image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are comparatively underdeveloped and beset with remarkable risks . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and refine its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap arrangements with china , and even hold modest amounts of its currency , in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-wage bet on its likely emergence as a universally accepted international currency . and countries ’ desire to preserve good relations with china , owing to its rising economic might not be discounted .
there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on one key set of issues , while receding to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist posture regarding regional diplomacy . and an american drug enforcement administration will not look kindly on any backtracking from previous mexican presidents past commitments to continue waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drug issues in mexico . as it stands , the peasants in guerrero cultivate the amapola for the cartels , rather than for their own livelihood . but trump cares more about security than does something about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi 's president , pierre neziza , won a third term amid violent protests . the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the introduction of a legislation that would allow president jokabila to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , in line with its agenda 2063 . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must stand against “ constitutional coups , ” enforced by presidents , because it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . in fact , the au has resisted military coups in the past .
higher fertility rates in the us , the united kingdom , and france reflect the large number of immigrant families in individual countries . but increasing the number of migrant workers will not necessarily raise fertility rates . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance . germany , for example , has a large population of guest workers , but few settle there with their families ; most leave their children in their homeland . and migrant fertility rates typically exceed those of native european or north american families .
the few who are noted typically end up slapping on the wrist , with the company , meaning its shareholders , pick up a modest fine . of course , there have been no consequences whatsoever for cheney . the real culprits at the very top of these companies rarely have one fear . impunity is widespread , indeed , that most corporate crimes are going un-noted . the news has barely budged in the american media .
for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our early primate ancestors – lived in small groups in which violence could be inflicted only in a up-close , personal manner , by beating , pressuring , strangling , or treating a stick or stone as a club . greene found that people asked to make moral judgment about “ personal ” violations , like pushing a stranger off a footbridge , showed increased activity in areas of the brain associated with emotion . this was not true when people were asked to turn judgments on relatively “ impersonal ” violations , like sending a switch . moreover , a minority of subjects who assumed that it would be right to push a footbridge stranger took longer to reach that judgment than those who said that it would be wrong . why did our judgments and our emotions vary ?
political uncertainty is high , and there is little prospect for a general election to be resolved anytime soon . in 1949 , britain found itself on an equal footing , with its trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and its weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling devalued once , as it did 18 years earlier , to 30 % . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu and then other new partners . investors have every reason to take a wait-and-see attitude .
at one time in power , erbakan tempered its tone and its actions . indeed , it remained a vital member of nato . turkey continued to allow u.s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraq in order to use turkish bases . indeed , power led refah to compromise , rather than extremes . relations with israel improved in terms of more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before by a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah .
new york – in 1893 , the late playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and treating equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play is not salacious , constituting no coarse language ; it was eight years before it can be staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theatre “ club , ” ” ” ostensibly confined to members . its performance in new york in 1905 raided by the police . the play justifies her lucrative exploitation of prostitution by a feminist standpoint .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the verge of an unemployment crisis portends profound economic , political , and social spillover effects . while the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within a decade , through its youth jobs in africa ’s initiative , it is not immediately clear where such opportunities will emerge . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double between 2050 and 840 million , and yet africa ’s next schools and universities fail to produce enough university graduates with the technical skills to succeed at a job tomorrow . every year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa , but only some three million find employment opportunities . but a crisis can be avoided , and one solution may be just as simple as turning on the lights .
let us be clear : a two-state solution does not mean accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means putting an end to that colonial enterprise . what they did not calculate was that the palestinian people had dignity and national pride just like any other nation , and would insist that they were treated accordingly . now plans are afoot to “ promote the future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw in which the palestinians are not participating . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever accept such a design , as was unambiguous in the messages delivered by world leaders under the trump administration . refusing to mention the two-state solution , trump ’s team ’s statements go in a different direction , more on par with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems .
in this respect , sanders is no different from many other american jews . he has certainly never embraced israel as a political cause , as many other american jewish politicians have . despite having commented on the matter where they are in need , he has consistently failed to find out about country-level issues . nor does israel seem to figure much in its own jewish identity , which is more linked to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . in any case , it is n’t as if avoiding talking about israel being a departure for sanders .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief enterprise is business . nothing has been said of human rights , much less of women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” has never passed trump ’s lips . the deal seems to have become the foundation of a brilliant new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , by portraying his support for an israeli-palestinian peace . instead , trump completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s moribund economy .
since gold stood at $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold has done nothing to compensate for the dollar ’s fall in the value of the dollar . a japanese investor holding dollar equities , or real gdp , could instead compensate for the dollar ’s loss by purchasing yen futures . the same is true for a euro--based investor that would not earn by holding gold but might have compensated for the dollar ’s decline by purchasing euro futures . tips , or their equivalent from other governments , provides safe hedges , and explicit currency futures can compensate for exchange-rate risk . in short , there are better ways than the gold standard to hedge inflation and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china has pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the dollar , each weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis really meant a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . but is china really to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? the central banks of south korea , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and a host of other countries are now buying dollars with the aim of defending its own currencies against revaluation and thereby defend its exports . at the same time , the united states is taking drastic steps against china and is imposing provisions for a trade war . europe has become nervous after the european exchange rate rose to over $ 1.40 , far short of the us dollar ’s purchasing power parity ( ppp ) rate .
but while such sources may offer valuable insights , they fail to meet the standards of the methodological rigor and the conceptual clarity upon which an informed public conversation should shape it . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for monitoring income and wealth . for these reasons , researchers , media , and civil-society organizations need far more . government statistical agencies should publish the revenue and wealth level of the top 1 % , -0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes that these groups pay . to this end , a particularly important milestone will come with a revisionist , owing in the next three years , of the un ’s system of national accounting .
moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton could tell them , is fearsomely complicated . it is becoming increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ trumpcare , ” ” anyone ? ) and one can expect that a republican plan will cover fewer people ; but much of the substance will remain the same . eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government slightly more than $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of federal spending . but these subsidies tend to pay a lot on their own dedicated taxes .
during cardoso 's tenure , lula privatized telecoms , the national mining corporation , and a part of the electric sector . from the start of the campaign , lula showed strength , particularly after making favored candidates , roseana sarney , had crashed and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered cash allocations in her husband 's offices . mr. and mrs. sarney was finally absolved from all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy . social inequalities heightened , and last year brazil suffered blackouts , along with power rationing . inflation fell , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply .
( for all of these interventions , the figures are probably still somewhat smaller , as charity impact calculator is not designed for such huge amounts , and so does not take into account that the costs will rise once the needs of those who are easiest to reach were met . ) in case , you believe that people receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has made clear that they will do so n’t . for $ 450 million , you could also buy 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . give directly ’s cash-transfer increases raise recipients of food security and wellbeing and assets . when a person chooses to buy “ salvator mundi ” rather than restore his eyes to nine million people , what does that say about their values ?
to start , you can simply set a price on , say , $ 1 , together with a list of people who can reach you for free . at the beginning , there will be a mass of glitches , beginning with people you know that who have multiple email addresses , old friends do n’t on your currently white list of free-senders , and so on . but such challenges will lessen over time and , as fewer mail , a higher proportion of it will be desired and answer . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities ; much of this will be handled ex ante . mail managers will also handle incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as specified by a recipient , and gather the credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts , or navigate other types of payment systems as they emerge ) .
on trade and immigration , for example , bannon has been a acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing the former self is another story ) . bannon has reinforced the nationalist inclination that has led trump to overrule his daughter , ivanka , and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has been interviewing foreign policy in foreign policy by getting his seat on the national security council for a while , up to two of trump generals ’ own administration – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now the chief of staff ) – have him removed . it has been a mistake to view bannon as a pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , in the same way that he is “ anti-israel . ” ( bannon was believed to be behind the recent push to force the imf , largely by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” )
meanwhile , demand in much of europe remains weak , ruling out the economic growth required to service the debts they need , and offering hope to the more than 25 million unemployed people . parochial suspicion has been the key impediment to a grand solution . they mistrust each other too much to collaborate . no country ’s euro taxpayers have ever wanted to feel paid for the others ’ excesses : the single currency has not imposed shared responsibility . thus , the creditor countries led by germany have sought to do the bare minimum needed to keep the euro alive , with the debtors stepping up imperfectly on germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
europe ’s low-cost credit ushered in the inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated abruptly , and what was the left ’s thoroughly overpriced rump of economies , which became excessively reliant on foreign financing . according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , restoring external-debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community – especially the international monetary fund – tried to cope with the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public credit . the french economy , in turn , suffers because its clients in southern europe got into trouble .
the author opens the fist page , and follows a variety of questions to see how he reaches his conclusions . the same happens , even to read philosophy , say , “ husserl . ” if i want to know whether it could be possible for napoleon meet kant , i pick volumes k and n and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 , respectively , of course , in 1804 . it is possible , then , that the two of them were met . of course , encyclopedias are never supposed to be read cover to cover .
but our emotions are algorithms , bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most decisions , including political ones ; economic cost-benefit analysis that do not connect to our emotional compass can not move the needle . at the heart of that issue is the sense of us . what does it mean to be an eu member state , in nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity ? from one perspective , this is merely another case of emotion defeating economic logic . borrowing them in might produce a better team , but it would no longer be our team .
the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , which looks to loggerheads with democracy . a close study by the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states by one nevertheless shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . this finding is based on a comparison of muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness ” by muslim countries . if a government sprang from reasonably fair elections , and an elected government manages to fill its most important political office , the country is seen as “ electorally competitive . ” islam and democracy frequently seem to be bitter antagonists .
other researchers have noted that the organism is really only “ semi-synthetic , ” ” because a synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into an ordinary , or non-synthetic , bacterium . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . ) understanding the history of synthetic biology has important implications , because it recognizes that the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which , in turn , affects the technology ’s potential applications and diffusion . in contrast , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger has correctly observed that venter ’s achievement is a technical advance , not a conceptual one . thirty-five years ago , america ’s national health institutes adopted overly risk-averse research guidance , using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques .
paris – with weak demand in the advanced world now impeding gdp growth in emerging economies , including major players in asia and latin america , many argue that an income convergence era has come to an end . at the same time , nothing could be further from the truth . as i argued previously , convergence in emerging-market countries ’ real average incomes , in the aggregate , with advanced-country advanced countries ’ incomes , will probably continue for 2020 . that process began in late 1980 , and continues unabated , except in the intervening years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence accelerated further during and not until , in the two decades prior to the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate differential in per capita income growth went to more than four percentage points during the 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades before .
labour has tried to pre-empt a constitutional debate because any move in the federal institutions ’ direction requires that the party de-representation in the uk ’s parliament . it is unfair to hand an ever-larger power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to hand over labour , which controls some 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionately say over what happens in england . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its belief in the union of the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate about how to restore the union may be modernized . this belief has suited both the main political parties , and now the two main political parties . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to pieces , we must change the ways we organize ourselves .
at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not just on tackling fake information , but also on identifying the sources of sound information and pointing their readers and followers to them . this is the approach taken by our organizations and other learning platforms to help educate people to identify false or misleading intent . it also means working with tech companies to identify ways to prevent wider streams of misinformation , including across international borders . that means reaching out to public figures to request on-track records , lodging complaints with norms , and offering training to media organizations . and we should work with schools and other learning platforms to help teaching people to identify false or misleading assertions .
london – one of the more dispiriting features of today ’s ’s ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons , and by those who would have built more of them , lest they be only too willing to use them , has been consigned to the margins of us politics . it would take the courageous gambler to bet on ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty ( ctbt ) any time soon . us president barack obama did capture global attention with his prague declaration in 2009 , which made the case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he did deliver on a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit intended to reduce the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and technology to theft or diversion . nonetheless , the nuclear issue continues to struggle over public resonance and political traction .
the report concludes that a $ 3.6 trillion investment shortfall ( about one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed to boost the quality of america ’s infrastructure by addressing the “ substantial backlog of overdue maintenance [ as well as the ] pressing need for modernization ” by 2020 . the report cited numerous state-specific gaps , including michigan ’s “ 88 high hazard dams and the 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california . it thus seems self-evident that an advanced economy requires adequate , ongoing investment in public goods . but the american infrastructure state indicates that many decision-makers do not share this view . a 2013 report by an american civil servant gave american society a pathetic global grade of d + for its own infrastructure .
governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate the commodity markets , but it is a mistake to see prohibition as the ultimate and/or even minimal form of regulation . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm linked to drug use . prohibition in fact represents regulation ’s abdication of any kind . whatever is not suppressed is effectively unregulated , with the possible exception of criminal organizations . global cannabis markets , opium , and coca goods are essentially similar to that of other global markets for commodities ; yet global drug-control policies operate on the premise that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there can be no demand .
the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy , for example , “ is to protect our fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken out of the sea by allowing our young fish to reproduce and for the assurance that action is respected . ” this is for the best possible reasons – the fish that are caught when they are doing too little will produce a little yield . to see this , consider the north sea of cod . to see this , consider the north sea cod . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is , for instance , “ to protect our fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from the sea by allowing our young fish to reproduce and for which actions are respected . ”
but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’s heel . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and typically 86 % – support him on everything from crimea ’s annexation to its most recent term as president . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration about the real cause . with the russian economy stagnant , owing in large part to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . truth about what people in fact feel remains impossible to know .
financing from parent banks that in the earlier phases of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems now looks more as a liability and a potential source of contagion . yet that vulnerability was largely devised , or at least accommodated , by western banks . it was also the west ’s financial regulators and supervisors , who , under “ home rule , ” were supposedly able to deter these excesses . but probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread . the penetration of foreign banks also effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary policy instruments , leaving them with little control over extraordinarily rapid credit expansion .
emulating countries elsewhere , african governments responded to violent extremism in the first place , by placing potentially “ hard ” safety first . but this strategy did not actually reduce extremist groups ’ potency or confined to them . in reality , there is evidence that an exclusively military response can render resources redundant or even do more harm than good . what passes missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly the underlying development challenges . add to this misreading of ethnic and religious diversity , stirring in the great and growing cohorts of unemployed and digitally linked youth , and the continent provides ideal conditions for mayhem .
furthermore , wherever health-care costs compensate for everyone – including the us , with its own public health-care programs for the poor and the elderly – everyone pays the cost of trying to treat drug-resistant diseases . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create new revenue sources for organized criminals . corporate concerns that a us law might be copied in much larger markets , like india and china . but it seems odd to hold that the state might basically prohibit marketing , but may not permit it only in packs that carry graphic images of the damage that it causes to human health . the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia ’s law to the world trade organization .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , which invested money in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks suffered fewer than 10 deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was n’t prepared , 2,000 lives were lost . according to a recent rand study , the united nations department of disaster loss-reduction research funding in 2003 amounted to some $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research for this year . climate change policies are not the best way to reduce the impact of weather-related catastrophes . the un framework convention has refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the catastrophes they feared were associated with climate change .
specifically , leaders focused on investment , commerce , competition , and efforts to enroll more women in the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and the target of corruption . the g-20 ’s stance poses a powerful challenge to the outside world to reach a global accord at the un climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this dismaying australia ’s conservative host government , which fought to keep the issue out even to rise ; the australian public , however delighted , and promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) other formal outcomes at the g-20 meeting were the agreements , backed by more policy detail than most commentators expected , to stimulate global growth . the g20 ’s signature achievement has been to leverage the now-announced us-china emission goal into formal support for “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ”
many of those who voted for macron may have had some hope for midterms bonaparte . but reveling in a country whose monarchical history may be dangerous . if one hopes to impress russian president vladimir putin , or those of other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such a magisterial setting as versailles is confident in proving to be efficient . but they may now think more about louis xvi , a king who has paid with his life for the faults of his predecessors . can macron learn from his past mistakes and regain the trust of right-wing french voters , who have felt so humiliated ?
for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy turned its corner . and they did , culminating in one of the most successful periods in global policy-coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging economies . the change was so notable that a large number of policymakers plunged into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what looked like a protracted and complicated process of renewal . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and this is what an economy recovered in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of the american federal reserve .
the recession of 2008 was sparked by the collapse of the dot-com bubble . housing wealth in the us has fallen by 34 % since its peak in 2006 , and remains declining . the stock market has fallen nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak and remains down by almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth has triggered a massive and persistent fall in consumption demand , leading to a spike in unemployment . fear feeds on itself and a prediction that stocks will lose value become self-fulfilling .
as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon , and is calling for solutions . a free , healthy , healthy news media are critical to a well-functioning democracy . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend former at all costs . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did n’t purchase a las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or catch israeli news media .
so far , it has been time for merkel to reach agreement with a weak or non-existent opposition . that will change very quickly , particularly in view of the possibility of nato troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , she will require a trait she has lacked so far : leadership and decision skill . a black and yellowish victory has defined an alternative : red , dark red , and greece . the political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage reliance on public transportation to make our streets cozy and secure for walking ( particularly for women and the disabled ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , and companies to cut the amount of energy that they waste . a fourth challenge is changing how we produce , transport , and consume our energy . this includes creating more efficient energy systems , and increasing our investment in renewable resources ( which will , one hopes , create job opportunities ) . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure to so that this precious resource can redeploy a few times and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu undoubtedly has reason to celebrate . by securing a decisive electoral victory , he surprised almost everyone by winning a third consecutive term in office following his far-right likud party gaining a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main opponent , the center-left zionist union . but it is the celebration that seems to be short-lived . the path netanyahu has finagled that result – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlements on occupied lands – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians to live in the occupied territories that a genuine deal with israel is impossible .
of course , i hope that the new deal will last , at last bringing about a peace deal for ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the deal lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as putin ’s automatic eviction from russia ’s swift financial transmission system , should it renege on any aspect of the deal . simply put , trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . an early test of the extent of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk deal should be to use its frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . savchenko had mounted a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for which i was imprisoned .
before anyone starts slashing our travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need to move people rather than information . through research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized user donation to the centers for international development at harvard university , we are beginning to shed some light on this mystery . in ongoing work with desbahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some intriguing , stylized facts . more populous countries have more commercial travel in both directions , but that is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of the population than another has only around 70 % more entrepreneurial travel . why waste precious worktime in the air , safety checks , and waiting for our luggage ?
too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , figuring that he would soon go astray , having done little harm . yet he has not gone away , and caused plenty of harm . the us can not afford to make the same mistake it once again . the price of liberty , americans take a joy at it , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount to it .
and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ ” climate champion , an image that some of its government has been attempting to cultivate , the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . precisely , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval for a set of already-“ realistic ” practices to reduce red tape perceived investment in the extractive industries , the very industries upon which the economy must become far less reliant . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , establish environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental-impact assessments . the peruvian administration now has a serious dilemma .
the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government – which has been herself imprisoned and torched under the military regime – is that brazilians know exactly what is at stake . when pundits weigh on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class , as well as booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil-society groups , the relative sheer newness of hard-won freedoms , and the intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule , means individual liberty . ( far less do they note the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism have played in development . ) fifa and the governing council ’s reaction to brazil ’s recent protests places at risk of what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy .
the eu is now a military-political alliance that sets the democratic standards of new members and their aspirants . it is how , then , can nato help with this ? no romanian government can neglect such standards . directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much . in fact , nato is no more than a military alliance .
nonetheless , trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , as an interim head of state after guaidó invoked widespread support among venezuelans , invoked constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a us-based class of corrupt tycoons , effectively a mafia “ mafia ” that bought army loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-dealing deals . the mafia ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally so . in terms of the number of political prisoners , maduro has joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices .
so far , however , efforts at lower financing costs have had a limited impact . the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting the banks ’ reserve-currency requirement ratio – the momentum for restructuring could disappear ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will flow to the real sector . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit for non-financial enterprises remains close to 7 % , with economic growth edged down from 7.4 % in the past three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not be dire , but it is far from ideal – particularly at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform .
while such an approach would surely fall short of the maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . drafted with reference to the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestinian in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the creation of a palestinian state and a state for a jewish people based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed borders and a set of security arrangements . rather than closing doors , such a redefinition of the un ’s statehood bid would offer the palestinian leadership a much-needed symbolic success , including a framework from which to “ restart negotiations ” – a longstanding palestinian demand . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . it would also address indirectly the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ”
given that ongoing occupational changes have already kick-started this trend , gates , and some in the european parliament have suggested that the need for robots is taxed to pay for human services . whether this will be the best solution nowadays is the topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some sort of compromise will have to be introduced . at the same time , robotics and ai will raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly regarding privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this topic , rather than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working on robotization .
so goes the refrain , in argentina , in the very famous argentine song . whenever they take bathing , they follow the same path , first raising anxiety over what happens when argentina pays back its foreign debt and then pays back its debt , under severe pressure , from the international monetary fund and the u.s. . at the same time , “ all . everything . everything . . ” yet , in fact , in argentina , everything remains the same , or is becoming worse . heraclitus ’s warning against asthing in the same sea is lost twice on the part of the us economic ministers , who insist on bathing regularly in or out of contaminated waters .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are crucial to tackling a world of strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our current institutions , including , most notably , the united nations frailer . we have seen this happen on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not broken , but it is in trouble , particularly as more countries treat it like a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
in ninety days , these organizers turned more than five million protestors worldwide . mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , based on a loose global plan . the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest was apparently taken at the june 15 meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence in november last year . there are three keys to this phenomenon . the internet has allowed for rapid dissemination of organizational plans at a extraordinarily low cost to the organizers .
how better to memorialize that choice than with a building boom in jail ? according to the american south command spokesman overseeing gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned because they were confident of obama ’s vow to close gitmo . the new facility for which the money is to be earmarked will house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is precarious ) , which was neither tried nor charged . indeed , they are purged to get left out , only to obama ’s failure to hold his promise – and to america ’s congress ’s failure to legislate his transfer – that keeps them there . eight prisoners are now entering their second month of hunger strikes .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute resolution and spur inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from a increased china ( and everyone else ) are shared broadly . flows of technology and innovation : enhanced technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would foster the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer such technology-intensive flows , which are increasingly being subjected to medical reviews . at the same time , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the degree to which technology flows unleash innovation and boost productivity growth . it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world also has the decisions to make .
using iceland as our measurement , the cost to greece not exiting the eurozone is equivalent to 75 % of one ’s gdp and counting . it is difficult to believe that , had greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have shored up even a quarter of that . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , such technical considerations make exiting the eurozone harder , expensive , and perilous . but that is just one side of the ledger , which is the most likely to be the currency . whereas greece remains mired in a depressed depression , iceland , which is essentially recovering .
there is only one way to explain america ’s administration ’s determination to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s vow during his presidential election campaign to disengage his country from iraq during his first term in office . seen in this , obama follows the example of us president george w. bush , who let a america ’s electoral agenda , rather than the american , to say nothing of iraqi national interests , dictate us policy in iraq . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , has been unable to secure a second term seven months after his election attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s shia political class . last march , as rumors circulated that he lost the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be endangered if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recount not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief .
in fact , i ca n’t believe that osborne himself has ever linked significance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . the signal – in this case , the promise of balancing the books is about to create reality . when one believes a narrative , one acts in ways that make it come true . in his emphasis on signaling ’s importance , economics enters a postmodernist territory . people start behaving like the books were balanced , ignoring them .
for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . this is a demanding moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity , too . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . in response to its dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which currently is working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will ultimately help to lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eradicate malaria in the country .
if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them like second-class citizens , they would have little stake in maliki ’s success , and might once again begin to pursue their political interests by other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . alternatively , the country ’s various interest groups might , like lebanon ’s ’s ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . worse still , factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraq ’s identity . even at best , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of a large shia-dominated militant organization . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon in this regard .
the u.s. had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from the saving shortfall that can not be tackled effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s ’s ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should leave the hook for unjust practices . but it does mean that there is ample hope for resolving a seemingly chronic trade deficit , as well as the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances , so long as an american does n’t start saving again . alas , this conspiracy is about being thicken .
meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy advocating an equally old totalitarian mindset . across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th sees itself as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated the armies of the three arab countries to conquer the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in less than six days . arab intellectuals , and indeed the broader arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and comprehend the lessons of the iranian earthquake . arab intellectuals , and indeed the broader arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and comprehend the lessons of the iraq earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and others are now busy advocating an equally old totalitarian mindset .
given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross resource misallocation . in principle , a country can run a current-account deficit or surpluses perpetually for decades . with china ’s chronic surpluses , however , is problematic . and , while recovery in the advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it was in 2012 , has caused investment growth , though still very rapid , to slow to its lowest rates over the previous 11 years . meanwhile , the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could unleash its increased investment-income deficit .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability united nations global footprint network , humankind will use the earth ’s resource budget for an entire year . this “ earth draw day ” has moved forward within a remarkable two months in the previous 20 years , and in 2019 it will come earlier than ever . though humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in myriad ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression has amply demonstrated in every chinese region in 1989 . a semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among an educated middle class , has been bought out with the promise of more wealth . the economic boom is the sole source of legitimacy left behind by a one-party state . and an intense set of discontent with official corruption and political oppression has amply demonstrated in all regions of china in 1989 . the previous communist government has managed to remain in power not simply through brute force .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure revenues worldwide , that is no longer sustainable . indeed , the world ’s 20 largest cities , accounting for 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new home units by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households either lived in substandard housing or struggled financially for their housing costs ; that figure is projected to soar to $ 440 million by 2025 . even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s gdp can not afford a decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in emerging-market countries .
berkeley – one does not need a particularly good time to hearing to decipher the dog whistles used throughout this year ’s election campaign in the united states . and it is terrifying to the americans , who , until recently , believe – or perhaps hoped – that they were living in a republic set based on the traditions set up by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt . listen even a brief , and you understand that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims want to blow everyone up . all of this scare mongering is scarier than election-year fare . it is terrifying to people in foreign countries who can conclude only that voters on the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s only superpower has become dangerously unbalanced .
but if unions are powerful or seniors are in majorities ( in italy ’s two coincide , because seniors are majority in all the labor unions ) , the precise opposite is happening . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the pensions issue or issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this entirely . professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in his recent book , expresses the desire by the us giving it “ less to the fathers and more to their sons . ” put in these terms , the problem is always solved by giving more to those with the most political power . here is the grand delusion about the us budget and the department of finance in italy .
oslo – education is a human right , but one that can never be taken for granted . around the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school , and they are out of school . and , like any other human rights watch , it can not be taken for granted . more than 120 million children , with no comprehensive primary education , are in sight . behind these figures for young children and young youth , they are being denied not only the right but the opportunity : the fair chance of getting a decent job , escaping poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities .
small farmers , from both women and men , are africa ’s largest farming investors . but africa ’s farmers are meeting major barriers to achieving their potential . on average , they apply less than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to about 140 kilograms in india . moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely used . and agriculture ’s projected gdp growth is more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors .
clearly , the majority of the eu ’s national governments are not . gm foods have now been on the american market for over 12 years . the question now is whether the decision-makers are prepared to take advantage of them . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? are the risks so high that they justify the suffering that might have been avoided ?
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such an insatiable appetite for debt . but policy-induced distortions are also playing an outsize role . of the roughly $ 200 trillion held by global financial assets today , nearly three-quarters are in some form , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government securities . the derivatives market certainly helps spread risk more broadly than this superficial calculation implies , but the fundamentals stands . the imperfect information and difficulty in monitoring firms present considerable barriers to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
italian exports to china currently amount to roughly € 13 trillion ( $ 14.7 trillion ) annually , with imports amounting to some € 29 billion . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not follow this best bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s interests may not be aligned with those of china . moreover , partnerships with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given constrained lending by its banks . whereas italy received some € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed bri projects worth over $ 80 billion .
to be sure , many latin american leaders have , in recent decades , risen to power on promises of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have brought some short-term benefits , particularly to the poor . but , in many cases , such measures have often been plagued by populism , and ultimately did more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund its own social programs , those leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals . after years of economic stagnation , and even crises , public ’s patience has worn thin .
its eloquent resignation letter has made it clear that he protested not just to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and his opponents ; his willingness to put aside friends such as the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , like nato . the list of departures from trump ’s ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress have expressed outright fear of the trump presidency . even that divety loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , just issued a senate confirmation statement that he was “ aggrieved ” by the exit of mattis ( a major sign , many believe , mcconnell ’s private had worried about trump ’s impact on the republican party . mattis ’s cronies made some light on television interviews that what most troubled a retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he could no longer influence politics , but also that his standing in the cabinet was seen as an affirmation of trump , a position that he could no longer bear .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effects of harming international business in china . the government has strengthened its security system further , putting itself in place a ubiquitous advisory court system . yet china ’s priority , then , is not simply to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to spur growth while safeguarding its power by protecting its monopoly . the regime is set to demonstrate to the world that china , again a world power , can stage a spectacular show , and that its voice will be heeded .
it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning . it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or an internationalist right-leaning one . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . if globalization , in its assortment of different dimensions , is to win a popular majority , it will need to be accompanied by modernizing social policies that offer effective help for those in need . at a time of ongoing economic disruptions , this will be all the more consequential .
but there is an alternative , one that might help appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss from an outright ban on smoking : e-cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes are just heating a nicotine solution to produce inhalable vapor , unleashing none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoking , making them the ideal nicotine-delivery system for aspiring smokers or calling for forcing them to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . but , despite substantial progress on china ’s e-cigarette industry , in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 plant manufacturers , up 200 % since 2012 , accounting for well over 95 % of global e-cigarette production – the traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently highlighted , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of around 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ” beyond being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes is a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 .
the reason un climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to the quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is straightforward . but countries are weighed automatically by such targets as sacrifice : in our efforts to cut emissions by x tons , we would lose y million additional jobs , with gdp falling by $ z trillion . even when a government tries to refine its commitments to , say , imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might fail to capture the desired outcomes . because there are no real penalties or punishment for failure , when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their minds .
while china provides just 4 % of the value added , it supplies core components to apple at low prices . apple can not build the american iphone from scratch in the u.s. , so it would have to search out alternative suppliers , raise its manufacturing costs considerably . this would give chinese smartphone business an opportunity to seize market share from major players . today , 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains . falling business costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with processed goods and value-added manufactured in multiple countries along the chain .
third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probabilities of the ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length ) are lower . finally , firms with a higher ceo pay slice are more likely to lend to their ceo with option grants that turn out to be opportuntimed . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as signs of governance problems . the lower sensitivity of performance turnover reflects less willingness on the part of a board to discipline the ceo .
for a living society can not be reformed from above . there is only one europe , despite its diversity , that is , the european union . if europe is to become one if the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies -- which is in everyone 's interest -- a number of vital tasks must be done , within the new democracies , as in the european and atlantic communities . in order to begin , europe must foster community within the ex-communist countries by bringing out the eu 's civil society . any weighty occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will merely prolong the conflict . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policies toward russia . this approach offers the best chance for bringing the current confrontation to an end , with compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders that they will not back down , the sooner the conflict could end . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back confidence that it has broken down , demonstrating its commitment to abide by us treaties and international norms of behavior toward which it has agreed .
today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some of the crumbs from the country ’s siberian pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece into an exit , the world will never again trust europe ’s longevity . nine times out of ten , nothing really serious about this happening – only a slight distress for individuals or groups . but we run the risk of the tenth time … ” at a minimum , the weaker eurozone members will undergo heightened market pressures .
for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth defines status or a gerontocracy , in which the age leads one high , or even an aristocracy in which what counts are inherited titles and properties . so meritocracy seems preferable , though , on closer inspection , things are not so straightforward . by and large , most of those in the top reaches are not just a civil service and a judiciary , but also a politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the well-known grandmaster . so meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first glance .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that the young can live up to their full potential . in america , for example , only about 9 % of students come from the bottom half , while 74 % come from the top quarter . some countries even impose a constitutional mandate for equal educational opportunity . but in america , more is spent on educating the rich students than on educating the poor . as a result , the us is squandering some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turn to dysfunctional activities .
but those reserves were concentrated in the south , and thus lost when south sudan ’s seceded in 2011 . even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . for decades , le monde used oil revenues to buy its relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . at the same time , the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with a suspension of the group unless they transfer power to a civilian authority . and , indeed , now , political stability has been gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population has been a daunting one , particularly given the constraints on vital resources like water and agricultural land . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply include genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms , – stacked greenhouses – that use artificial light to grow crops , can provide significant savings , which might then pass alongside consumers . but questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . a third solution is emerging now : vertical farming .
our pension systems , and our national budgets , need to be based on a `` generational accounting '' '' that assures that economic risk is systematically distributed across a generation . what this means for this is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most likely can not be kept , anyway , of some pay-as-you-go systems in the future . what this does mean is that the issue is political . pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . still , we must confront squarely the intergenerational issues at the heart of today 's economic dilemmas .
many steps have been taken in recent years to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation . but any gains from lower tax rates are more than offset by those losses in the private sector , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn relowering economic growth – and thus reducing government revenue . this may only exacerbate europe ’s sovereign-debt problem , weakening its already-meager growth prospects . lower funding costs for government debt appear to have produced net benefits for society , because the government then saves in the provision of debt and can keep taxes lower . but what is being proposed now will make investment lending even less attractive , and give increased incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . when palestinians asked mitchell ’s assurances that america would support such a declaration of statehood if talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations pointless . instead , the americans have their own thoughts about how to achieve a breakthrough , especially with israel that the obama administration believes is now the major obstacle . the only impediment that remaining in the hands of palestinian leaders is the american people . to effect israel ’s change , the americans are launching various trial balloons .
the commercial calculus behind this business has sometimes produced riots until anatomy laws have allowed executed murderers ’ bodies and unclaimed dead , thereby reassuring middle - and upper-class individuals that their bodies are not allowed to take action . these old tensions have assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue seizes entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to address cell , tissues , or genes . the most well-known case regarding the body as assets is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and his spleen removed in 1976 . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , set contracts , and sold rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from the “ mo ” cell lines .
but germans , undaunted by it all simply continue to celebrate a single great soccer party with its newfound friends from all over the world . in berlin , as in other huge german cities , taxi sport flags of their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia – are the colors of the continent . the black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns all of the country as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones . in reality , the flags of many nations fly alongside germany . yet , black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns all of the land as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones .
to stop the ebola outbreak from escalating further , relevant actors – from health workers to government leaders – must re-engage with affected communities to win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proved , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space of just a hundred days . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and traumatized populations with little or no knowledge in local or international institutions.amp # 160 ; meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has steadily risen .
it has existed as long as government has this way ; but , like so many crimes , it has become increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of a country of its countless innocent citizens . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with representatives from business and civil-society groups – will have a critical opportunity to act on that recognition . for starters , rooting out corruption cripples prospects for development . it has existed as long as government does ; but , like any other crime , it has grown ever more sophisticated over the past few decades , with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of its countless innocent citizens . when – say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or natural-resource royalties are stolen at the source , or the private sector has monopolized a narrow network of cronies , residents can not realize their potential .
in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled new grievances . the protests began when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra – yingluck ’s largest brother and ptp ’s founder , who had been overthrown by the military in 2006 , on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the murder charges brought to a leader of the democratic party , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) yingluck ’s government had refused to concede a governing constitutional court against a bill to alter the senate from a half-appointed chamber to a fully elected chamber . but yingluck ’s subsequent backtrack attempt at amnesty failed to mollify the opposition .
eu member states are now more divided than ever about the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . a wide-ranging pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by a resurgent nationalism . moreover , the east is increasingly a pitted against the west and the north against the south . new presidents of the european commission , the council of europe , and the european central bank are likely to be nominated , with a new high representative for the union for foreign affairs and security policy . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in the european parliament , such appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to reinvest in their national health systems . but , while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions might sound like straightforward access to ensuring universal health coverage , that has not turned out to be true . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few medical facilities that communities could do without . the recent ebola epidemic in the developing world highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in the developing world . but , when countries rush to build more clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions , it might seem like straightforward access to ensure universal health coverage , which has not turned true .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on a number of issues , though his proposed solutions would make perfect difference . wilson , for example , would probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . it is truly problematic that america ’s banks and firms can export capital , technology , and employment just as they please , with little or no sense of the domestic cost . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a japanese-dominated multilateral process . likewise , he would probably advocate a fiscal policy that focuses on advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest firms and households on funding for , say , infrastructure development , high-quality education , and universal health care .
when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our labor lay a proficient in english . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the firm , thought i was a bit mad . but , just seven years later , the corporate titans of japan are looking for our advice on how to build a global brand headquartered in japan ’s capital . the goal was to lay the groundwork for a worldwide expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . but , in a move i believe was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a plan to make english-our corporate language in just two years .
but this would only further weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to bolster them . the ecb ’s decision to provide banks with unlimited liquidity does not resolve governments ’ sovereign-debt problems or is its intent . tax increases and public-spending cuts are still needed ; this does not eliminate this reality . but it does , at least , prevent the debt problem from creating a banking crisis that , in turn , worsens an uncontrolled debt problem . europe has runs a second vicious spiral , operating from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation .
indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians , and medical professionals . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less exciting to americans . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european political policymaking are contributing to the development of 60 % of america ’s new drugs , compared to just 40 % just ten years ago . so american eyes are shifting elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , year in and year out , and to india , with its 1.1 trillion people and 6 % annual growth . add to that economics , too , to this recipe , too .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people died through 14 countries , yet the two isolated andaman tribes , who rely on traditional warning systems , suffered no well-known casualties . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have profound consequences . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been made directly opposed to loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunts , hunter-gatherers , hunter-gatherers , hunts , and other interlopers . but they are likely to die much faster if we suddenly interact with them , bringing with us modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise has serious consequences .
it is , of course , not unreasonable that poland and hungary – whose sovereignty was usurped by the soviet union – are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making , and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the insecurity that arises from globalization . that is why it is so difficult for me to grasp their position today . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others did the entry of poland and hungary into the european atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope in that momentous times .
if we distill a spirit infused into international law over the ages , and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law by sea will become a matter of common purpose . it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over great many years for everyone ’s well-being . today , many advantages for humankind depend upon the sea from the pacific to the indian oceans continue to be fully open . no particular country or group has created the law of international maritime , just as it now exists . but , by what , exactly , does that really mean ?
in addition , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals face a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – such as forced pregnancies . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose may help to predict and prevent the use of it . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . when perpetrators of sexual violence can be called upon to account in high-profile settings like the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . of course , effective solutions must consider the local context .
the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain approval in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect the cultural legacy ; it obliges the union actively to protect , maintain , and generate european cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can succeed on this task alone if its different constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from one another . because an enlarged union will become a reality for just two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for the cultural understanding that contributes to successful integration of the new members . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey . a decade ago with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect the " history , " cultures , and the traditions of all their constituent peoples " .
if pursued successfully , this agenda probably will reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned the large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have undergone a profound change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china struggling to restore internal balance . china has a responsibility to the saving side of the savings side , with the american people disproportionately accounting for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into american creditors . this model implies that china will develop domestic capital rather than simply relying on foreign investment . doubling average us household incomes by 2020 , a target set at the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november , is likely to free the $ 10.3 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s enormous domestic market moving ever closer to a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth .
i do not like quotas either ; they run counter to my beliefs through a meritocracy . but when one considers the barriers to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it looks as if a fairer world has to be temporarily mandated . in fact , i understand the reding of ’s ’s reticence – and of her frustrations . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe are like the american are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion into top positions , no matter how great a “ soft constraint ” is imposed on them . when women break through to a summit of corporate power – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention , precisely because they remain the exception to the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , while i competed in india ’s last parliamentary election , i felt something of a rarity . i was not yet a professional politician . i was not born into the political family ; i had no single seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i came across a race free of the political “ godfather . ” by contrast , all of the other candidates in my constituency , indeed , most of the contenders throughout the country , devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days . i had not even been a living in india for several decades , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations .
the fdp has abandoned talks out of the frustration that , as its leader , christian lindner , put it , “ the four discussing partners have no shared vision of modernizing the country or a common foundation of trust . ” even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost any other member state today constitutes a “ 50-50 societies ” : half a cosmopolitan , half a communitarian . in these countries , a government at any given time represents whichever side has won the newest round in an ongoing culture war . ultimately , however , the experiment has failed .
at the same time , all recruitment activities , advertising and financial transactions related to online child trafficking should be criminalized . parents must build bridges of trust , so that their children are feeling open to their problems . boosting awareness on the issue is also crucial , particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and lack of age-appropriate sex-care training in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers to this regard . for starters , all countries need to define online child sexual trafficking and incorporate it into their national penal codes alongside tough penalties for violators .
moreover , communities need increased access to both contraceptives and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to reinvigorate or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . these reforms are crucial to improving guyana ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives cut through pregnancy . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and people with special needs , an often-overlooked segment of youth populations . these spaces should be open after school and weekends , staffed with knowledgeable , sympathetic adult adults .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age populations would prefer to earn income , whether primary or secondary , out of independent work . many are low-end workers who would otherwise have been unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and therefore , jobs – would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work probably accounts for a rising share of the workforce during the long run , owing to advances in technological advances and individual preferences . while digital platforms for independent work are still in their early stages , employing just 15 % of the independent workforce , they are proliferating and expanding rapidly .
in this they were realists , but pressed for some measure of civic control over the authorities , both in the political and economic sphere . the demand for abolishing censorship was one of the polish political slogans of march ‘ 68 ’ . demands for freedom of assembly and a right to organize followed . crucially , the protesters did not demand free elections . one slogan was " not bread without freedom . "
new haven – in what might well be the ultimate act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control to the economies that they have been entrusted to manage . taking the negative interest rates , originally launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan , represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis was shifted to boosting aggregate demand – primarily by redressing the borrowing costs ; it was also by spurring the wealth effects from an accumulation of financial assets . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing , and now negative interest rates – one futile attempt begetting another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically deficient recoveries , a shift to negative rates will merely compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policies have also turned out to be ruinously expensive . this , in turn , has encouraged more dependence on highly polluting coal , the worst energy source , from the eu perspective of global warming . as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , by the price of permit has fallen below three euros per ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market nearly meaningless .
of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than on bilateral imbalances . china may want oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east , with so much of the wealth that is concentrated in so little hands , might be more interested in gucci handbags than in china ’s massachusetts . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral trade surpluses with other countries . that way , china can run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with america , but those bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . the task facing the imf is formidable .
asked whether they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( worst in terms of life ) to ten ( best life ) , americans in 2018 responded with the 6.9 average , down from 7.0 in 2017 and 7.3 billion during 7.3 billion in 2006-2006-2008 . stress , worry , and anger all hit double-digit american highs in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( worst in terms of life ) to ten ( best lives ) , americans in 2018 responded with the 6.9 average , down from 7.0 in 2017 and from 7.3 % during 2006-2008 . stress , worry , and anger all hit double-digit american highs in 2018 . asked about their feelings the previous year , most americans ’ first-round majority ( 55 % ) said that they had experienced stress during a number of that day , almost half ( 45 % ) said that they were feeling worried lots , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they felt anger much .
to this end , banks should make their values and a culture rooted in their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions . constant reminders and repetition are , of course , essential . employees need to understand instinctively what could be done , and what should never be done . they must internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical standards of behavior . a written code – to emphasize both the commercial contribution of ethical business conduct and the adverse consequences for a fall short – is part of that effort and may help preserve and strengthen the cultures ; but a code for itself is insufficient .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the vote right , and today a majority of women in the developed world are enchanted . that is certainly true in pakistan , where a general election set on july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first blush , pakistan looks progressive . the law has permitted women to vote since 1956 , nearly a decade after independence from britain . but , in many developing countries , the opposition that british suffragettes faced just a century ago , rooted in misogyny .
none of this foresaw the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , it did has a semblance of full employment . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just when the euro crisis worsened , and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation still closer . in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually rose . it should have become apparent that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models – the two formal models and the mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were badly wrong . on the whole , they went further , using the old discredited models , perhaps slightly modified .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his most recent wife – – were as incompetent in governing as kim , but following the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism to them to the army and other state institutions was no less widespread for them to last . they , and a gang of $ four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) was soon ousted . but mao ’s death did not end the era of caesarism in china . in the absence of a son ’s attempt to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to make the job . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , was pleased for china ’s citizens .
though communism could , with each now and then coexist privately with private property and sometimes at the expense of private enterprise , its members could never coexist with civil society . but a revival of civil society , the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life , is a complicated task , because the citizens of egypt and tunisia will soon find out . we in ukraine have learned that truth from the harsh experiences of the communist era . the most fateful assault on the installation of any dictatorship is an attack on civil society . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight .
even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke a principle of collective defense , under article 5 of the nato treaty ? would he have called on putin to ask , “ what is happening ? ” and would putin make another “ impossible bid , ” to help supposedly convince us investigators to get to putin ’s bare issues ? finally , just imagine if trump could respond to it . then , imagine american intelligence agencies acknowledging that an act of aggression really exists , despite putin ’s ’s denials .
and , indeed , for many years , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy has been showing doubters wrong . but these outside risks so far are not making the world ’s growth outlook grim . the baseline scenario for the us is continued strong growth . europe ’s growth could be above trend just as well , as it continues its long , sluggishness in recovery from the debt-crisis erupted in 2008 . so 2019 could turn out to be another year of robust global growth .
that little victory turned into a major defeat for the shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such analysis and reproposing the rule , was chosen to stall . at a conference last december , i asked sec chairs mary shapiro , when her agency planned to reintroduce the rule . i even offered to do the giving cost-benefit analysis a free speech . but she acknowledged that the sec had many other items on its agenda , and put the issue on the back burner as a polite way of saying that the sec , like heroic students in massachusetts , had given up under irresistible pressure . argued by eugene scalia , the son of american supreme court justice antonin scalia , in a case opposed to the sec was won in the american court of appeals , dc , on technicality , the sec ’s failure to establish a cost-benefit analysis ahead of time .
the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed , but less forceful , with monetary policy easier than the headline inflation rate would suggest is appropriate . in brief , major central banks , on both sides of the atlantic , have reacted to the financial crisis , but have not generated an excessive reaction . indeed , the fed ’s monetary-policy stance has not been enough to stave off an american recession , if one that remains so modest that many are questioning whether it qualifies as an effective animal . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . but these are not normal times , either .
when the opposition tried to question these inconsistencies , eck abruptly declared kibaki to be the winner . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the american-led international community ’s response to it is no less distressing . the eu ’s own observers have also announced that it failed to meet basic international standards . days later , the eck ’s chief head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results , ” despite the clear evidence for voting rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who actually won .
given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data , as they do , little weight should be attached to it . it is also true that current global trade tensions hit eurozone manufacturers hard , particularly in germany . but it is hard for monetary policymakers to react to the introduction of trade barriers . moreover , a host of risk-premium problems makes such indicators hard to interpret . unsurprisingly , therefore , households ’ surveys and firms forecast actual inflation more precisely .
as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , however , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rate is inadequate to sustain large inward r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially non-viable . the drugs making it to the market have to fund the costs of failure on those that have not made it to the market . at first sight , it seems counterintuitive that companies want to share data and potentially give away competitive advantages . but this presupposes that holding such data really does imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable . in fact , however , pharmaceutical companies continue to hold enablers of the pre-competitive , needing to adjudicate disputes .
trying to force iran back with steadily mounting sanctions failed to produce results . despite the tightening economic noose – the american has imposed sanctions on every company doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union ’s plan for imposing sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is extremely close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . while the iranian government might most likely be dissuading iran from weaponizing a nuclear-armed state , the price of a nuclear-armed iran might well stand for a regional arms race – a nuclear-armed saudi arabia that could potentially have followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines worldwide oil prices is an appalling scenario . the market has already passed the measure of last week ’s tension , driving the price of some oil contracts to their highest levels in eight months .
post-crisis harmonization of fervor in this region means that it will now be more costly everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected changes of interest rates . if applied , bank capital will scarcer , slower credit flows , and bank charges are higher in countries with a pretty stable financial sector , simply because others have been spending a fortune to support its financial systems , and because the european commission never misses the opportunity to unify eu rules . the same , applies to the derivatives trading system , to be sure . this levy , strongly backed by those countries , whose financial sectors are in tatters after the crisis , is difficult to swallow for eu member states that have not intervene to bail out their banks . the levy is an easy way to propagate the political and financial cost of a crisis from some to all eu members .
learnup , a san francisco startup that has attracted funding from some of the largest venture capital companies in silicon valley , sets partnerships with employers to offer online trainings that connect job seekers to particular jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill with the expectation that learnup helps them recruit higher-quality applicants . at & t provides scholarships through partner for-profit institutions and provides paid internships for up to 100 graduates . and , indeed , as soon as candidates completed the training , learnup helps them to ensure interviews with prospective employers , which already comprise a few large companies . the california community college system is already working with learnup to give students access to the skills they need to fill available local jobs .
porto , the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and has led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country , poses an enormous danger not only for egypt ’s democratic transition , but for the whole arab world ’s democratic hopes as well . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the tremendous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not just for freedom , but also for economic development and social justice . of course , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own blunders , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , the elements of which joined his election . morsi ’s government appeared incapable of understanding that a slender electoral majority was insufficient , especially nowadays . taking the coup with massive popular support is a sign of the enormous difficulties facing the muslim brotherhood during its initial turn in power .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa trial , on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , in which 800,000 people – from april to july 1994 – began in paris . unfortunately , the mass killings in africa continue . in south sudan , africa has been the newest state , the massacres of civilians continue to take place , particularly around farc cities . and french military intervention in the central african republic has not placed the end of severe inter-communal violence there . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope .
europeans might not mind this right now ( after all , one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so happy if george bush iii comes along . moreover , with rising anxiety about america ’s fiscal policy sustainability , europe has an enormous opportunity to play a significantly larger role as a reserve currency . one shudders to think what will happen unless europe does not pull off its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed global economic counterweight to america ’s . luckily , europeans probably would not wait until now to start moving ahead .
a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast . the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and declining corporate-tax rate . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor in a japanese economy . that implies that it was not worth focusing on growth until deflation gap narrowed greatly , that , until now .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacated and the collapse of the palestinian authority in front of our eyes . many in the us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only by providential man , with all its hopes – and dangers – that this entails . nor , in triggering yet another providential figure , will come easily , as well . the natural course of history in the most optimistic feeling is progress “ at france , ” but the swift pace of technological change pushes us to expect equally rapid progress on human affairs . not all the exceptional periods produce their bonapartes , and this is probably a good thing , for extraordinary leaders may well give the illusion that any problems have solutions , which are far from the truth .
still , the uk has played a leading role by designing crucial eu policies , including single-market measures , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . uk leadership in these areas has been widely appreciated , and overall would sorely miss should britain ’s decide to leave . so , while a cameron government ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is a welcome development , it is impossible for the eurozone , and will not be shaped from outside and on british interests . indeed , last year ’s brexit negotiations on a united nations fiscal compact should already show cameron ’s difficulty in exercising an so-called national veto . the uk is in no position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to move forward .
in july of that year , robert a. ford , an american ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the mass massacre 30 years early . according to the state department at that time , the visit had been to “ [ express ] us deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and express themselves . ” they will fault , however , for not comprehending a wider war . it is already clear that the obama administration has not , in fact , learned what it has been bargaining for when , with no thought of what might come next , a popular uprising with a violence ? has the administration apparently failed to warn that assad – like his father before him – would have reacted to a popular uprising with a violence ?
beijing – after years of trying to manage the renminbi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under pressure to float the currency . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open-ended capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates give market participants an incentive to borrow foreign currencies and convert them into domestic currency for domestic-asset investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank , in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling the domestic currency , particularly for american dollars , until interest rates and money-supply started to their previous levels . but striking the right balance between a loosening of its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . every economist study learns the mundell-fleming model , according to which the economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , loose capital movements , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously .
america ’s presidential candidates hillary clinton has a more narrowly targeted proposal : a 15 % tax credit for profits that companies distribute to workers over the next two years . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to offset the administrative costs of establishing the profit-sharing program . the stagnant incomes of most american workers undermines the demand side ’s economic growth ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side benefits ( by addressing adverse effects on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and in terms of innovation ) . indeed , tax credit might also foster changes in the corporate culture , by spurring board-level discussions not only of profit-sharing benefits , but also of information sharing and decision-making authority with the workforce . to rein in costs and prevent abuses , the profits totaling more than 10 % at a top of a worker ’s pay would be exempted ; the total amount offered to individual firms is capped ; and safeguards against the substitution of profit-sharing for pay pay , raises , and other benefits are established .
moreover , selective repression has become harsher . most russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and authorities ’ credibility . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is ultimately tackling corruption . and that message is straightforward : none is safe from prosecution , even if , like abyzov and ishayev , they have retired from public service , and no longer have influence . nonetheless , it is the message to russia of ’s shaken elites that is more relevant .
last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies across many areas . it has also underpinned a successor to the commission , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . improved indicators would expose the highly negative – and possibly long-run – effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity that lowered fiscal deficits but decreased national wealth properly , measured , even more . the new report highlights several topics , like trust and insecurity , that were addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives and explores a few others like inequality and sustainability .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about financial markets ’ reform and regulation of the first three purposes , and he found himself “ moved toward … mak [ ing ] buying an investment permanent and indissoluble like a marriage … ” ” but he quickly drew back : the fact is that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ( though this may not be true for all investors collectively ) calms out its nerves , making him much more willing to run the risk … ” ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is entirely exempt from the gambling instinct ; whilst he , for that matter , has it must pay to pay for the appropriate toll … . ” it is for these reasons that we seem to have been frozen for the past generation , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . and it is because , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , we remain frozen today . moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] game of professional investment has intolerably boring and quelting to anyone who is totally exempt from the gambling instinct ; a , whilst , it has to pay to pay for the appropriate toll … ” ” ” ” ” ” ”
perhaps the most outrageous example is america $ 0.54 per gallon import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no overall oil tariff and a mere $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . hence , us foreign manufacturers can compete on the basis of the fact that their costs are $ 1,05 per gallon lower on average than they are on average on american producers . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american companies ( the vast portion of which goes to a single firm ) receive on their ethanol ( the equivalent of a bit of it ) . on one hand , the enormous subsidies meant that america became the world ’s largest ethanol producer . yet , despite this vast advantage , certain foreign firms might still make it in the american market .
the legal and political challenges implied by this is no minor issue : marijuana remains the illicit substance under us federal legislation and the international conventions adopted by america . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement . just as importantly , us president barack obama responded to the colorado and washington vote – with the two states winning easily in his reelection bid . the results not only fueled a clash between america ’s federal legislation and state legislation , but also signaled a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that pertaining to same-sex marriage . on further issues – notably , immigration – obama rejects the claims of states of ’ individual rights and continues to insist on a federal body .
the result has been catastrophic as ethnic rivalries sharpened . regional and religious tensions have been on the rise since houphouet ’s death and shelled a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 entailed a new “ democratic ” constitution that became an invitation to civil war . an estimated four million northerners were denied political participation or land-ownership on the grounds that they were the descendants of neighboring muslim migrants . whatever else said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves little doubt about the benefits of the social stability seen during the ivory coast during that period , to the late 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically preoccupied with its own former colony .
political trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past . in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . these are highly educated people who know knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and they reflect on the fact that learning in europe is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an education system according to which the state alone decides which research fields are necessary and socially important . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a civil right .
dubai – globalization , as many have recently noted , is back retreat . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , have noted that interdependency , formerly an economic boon , has now become a menace , as well . despite all its undeniable advantages , it has spawned governance and management problems that have exposed the inequities of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions have given rise to the political backlash , as well as the perils of catastrophe on many fronts . this has left people everywhere , rich and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed banks , over-fishing to under-hiring , from climate change to economic stagnation – that have contributed but ca n’t address effectively .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has guided the concept of the country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” nowadays , however , china still needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its exorbitant nature , but its provision by china that provided president mahinda rajapaska , with both the military supplies and the diplomatic cover that he needed to take on the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s administration would have neither the wherewithal nor the willingness to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to any aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now demonstrated its strategic potency in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” was finished .
should the breakup of the euro , and the collapse of gipsic countries , germany alone would lose some € 545 billion , almost half of the aggregate sum mentioned , given that the bundesbank was undertaking most of the net disbursement in the name of gipsic countries hit by target balances . germany has the largest exposure by far among the debt-mutualizing european countries , and is therefore helping to alleviate austerity more than any other country . when alexander hamilton , the first american finance minister , rolled out state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . george soros has underestimates the risks that the debt-mutualization would present for the eurozone ’s future . but the debt-mutualizing effects have provided enormous moral-hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively .
hong kong – looking back on june 2016 , there might seem little to celebrate . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat . in terms of global health alone , the year has emerged as one of unrelenting tragedy . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus have been dashed . there has also been the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs , ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the reemergence of polio in nigeria , which previously declared polio-free .
when it comes to securing banking equity , those precedents and existing institutions point the way forward . during the new deal era , regulators comprised the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but such mandates were removed during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks moving quickly away from low-end financial services and toward high-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities . history also shows us that financial exclusion is a relentless problem whenever universal service demand has been absent .
it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as they drove through the massive israeli settlements on territory that they worked to include in an independent state . by december 2016 , obama allowed the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major barrier ” to the two-state solution . after all , an israeli government not only authorized the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist ; it also provided these with water , electricity , the internet , and even military protection . it was not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as they drove through the massive israeli settlements on territory that they worked to include in an independent state . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american congress that direct talks between israel and palestine went “ some of poof ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank .
new haven : across europe and america , men in the black tie , and of women in bethlehem and armani gowns are an day more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , the glyndebourne , and the glimmerglass . once again , the state ’s coffers are tapped to support these privileged retreats . perhaps , then , it is also time to question once again a fundamental question : should the state either continue to ladle out generous subsidies to such elite activity ? does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ? consider a thing of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholic high mass .
in the case of defense and warfare , the unpredictability includes the opportunities for young men to die in action . this contrast underlines the spectacular achievements of eu integration have gone to that no-guy ’s – the land that lies between total national autonomy and a complete loss of sovereignty in a federation . so a key characteristic of european foreign policy integration is that governments can not know in advance of what they are letting themselves have been . yet foreign policy , as we now know it , is essentially a manifestation of a nation state or superpower . hence , not surprisingly , does not make any progress on foreign policy integration .
i am thankful from the donors starting point out that we now need additional international support . without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon often struggles to attract financing because of its status as a middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it fails to account for the severe structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the vast share of the resident populations composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq , living at virtually poverty . let us be clear at the oslo education summit at this month ’s end , but we now need additional international support . we face a shortfall of some $ 100 million for a new school year .
part of the problem , of course , is that us resolutions are designed to do just that we are n’t likely to do otherwise . just the anorexic would resolve to devour ice cream at least once per week , and only a workaholic would resolve to spend more time front with tv . so we are using the new year ’s worth to try to change behavior that might be the most difficult to change . that makes failure a distinct possibility , which is why we also know what we do . what does that tell us about human nature and our ability to live either prudently or ethically ?
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overstated the strength of america ’s economy after 11 consecutive years . if every year of fed forecasting was a “ coin toss , ” we would now have 11 heads of state in a row and zero tails with each other . the odds that now matters are one in 2,048 , if not the next . the fed clearly needs to take a deep view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . elementary mathematics dictates that credible forecasts should at least overestimate half the time and undershoot half that time .
such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness at the hands of psychiatric diagnosis . yet in our view , a over-diagnosing rate of more than 50 % is crossing a threshold of clinical significance . any study that seeks to determine whether some types of psychiatric disorder is totally diagnosed will find that some patient holding the condition can not it be reinterviewed . the question , then , is not whether some patients who have previously furnished a diagnosis does not seem to have it upon reinterviews , but rather how many do . how high a percentage should have been done before claiming that over-diagnosis is a significant problem and a judgment of value .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a panacea . this time around , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and the banking crisis is global . in many of the previous banking crises , it was a country or a region hit hardest ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out search for solutions , and some people lose confidence in the economic system as a whole . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels in europe this year have not attracted as much attention as they may have , given that he is us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen – himself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seemingly has a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ” bannon , for his part , wants to build a federation of nationalist parties in europe . as more countries are transforming themselves , into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological battleground . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue may pursue his political project anywhere but in america .
one celebrated incident of late in the eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s mission to the british imperial court of china . macartney refused to conform to chinese imperial protocol by slumping to kowtow to the emperor , precisely because he was not required to do the same to his own sovereign . this , too , was very the case of “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on equal status with his king . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang directly from another incident , nearly a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london . as a result , the mission has broken down .
assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged for the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to 5 % . during those five years , the investor earns an additional 2 % annual figure , for a cumulative yield of 10 % . but when the interest rate on the ten-year bond rises to 5 % , the price of the bond falls from $ 100 to $ 69 . here ’s how individual arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over their ten-year bonds for the next five years , who then earns 2 % more each year than it would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . if not , that loss in bond prices would more than wipe out the extra interest that it earned , even as tariffs remain unchanged for five years .
only with the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbons consumers can initiate change on a global scale . the g-8 countries should therefore agree to no longer license for new , oil-powered cars by 2025 . that decision would not be directed not against individual mobility , but against the dissipates of scarce resources that are more urgent to produce synthetic capital . the g-8 countries should therefore agree not to license for new , oil-powered cars by 2025 . change must start with the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption , the share that is likely to rise in the future .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning anything on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for the supposedly “ “ raping ” united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has backpedaled on his accusation that a country manipulates its currency so that its exports can gain an advantage . such statements are as perilous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation is not encouraging the facts . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) intervening in currency markets for the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital held ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of “ raping ” girls , many indians found themselves confronting their country ’s few painful truths . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of the several “ godman , ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders who flourish across india . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet ram rahim singh ’s insan – the hindu , muslim , and sikh names – followed the word for “ humankind ” in hindi , punjabi , and the urdu . and he has a reputation for being sexually glorified by his female followers . in 2002 , two of these followers mustered the courage to press charges .
by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposes some unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would result in increased trade diversion , with countries like china , iran , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . to be sure , some us imports would become more expensive to iran ; but the economic effects of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad surely would miss a chance to exploit unilateral actions for its propaganda purposes , claiming that iran has a conflict not with the international community but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , the europeans favor a new un security council resolution , even though its actions are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally .
postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that was consciously seeking to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies now seek to quash that influence . none could be more identified with a political elite than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and a later prime minister , as well as the son of a foreign minister . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . his effort to revise japan ’s ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , won him with the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , whom abe called “ trump a trump before trump . ”
african countries , by contrast , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources , rather than where it ’s ’s ’s pleasant to work . yet sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be so limited . ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy , and maintaining a positive public image . because the customer is abroad and there is little processing in country , why should companies upgrade their local skills or help the host economy otherwise ? as one former mining chief executive in the region told me , “ the goal has always been straightforward : get assets off earth and outside the country as cheaply and with as little fuss as possible .
the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and to vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming pretty much everywhere ; prices in most of them amount to at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now growth in home prices is waning in some of these cities . this has had a huge windfall for homeowners but has hurt anyone who is planning to buy . the first big city to boom was london , starting around 1996 .
after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are becoming increasingly aware of how to protect their own economic and social interests through the language of rights . the government employs a host of new legislation , shadowy internet police forces , and powerful hardware-based national intelligence filtering system . control also relies on demography , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and more likely to embrace the internet as part of a forthcoming consumer lifestyle , rather than as an instrument of political or social revolutions . what is astonishing is that the government ’s oversight mechanisms have been largely effective . but so are profound social changes rooted in rising rights consciousness within society , something strengthened – and amplified – not only by gdp growth , but by rapidly spreading the internet .
but , while shared european causes are daily , they do not have europe-wide political representation . this european polity lacks a second crucial element in madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , or special-interest groups are represented within the eu . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level choices . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent europe ’s linked interests because none has had to compete for europe-wide public support .
this time , too , not to mention the name of any deep economic thinker or any particular economic model . is there anything more , indeed , that one might ask the presidential nomination ? even though some sort of advisers might change , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge , if only to suggest where their own ideas are coming from ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their ability to judge and manage expertise , rather than their institutions as economists . in the past , obama originally had a wonder team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect a debate between the consultants or the question of intellectual influences .
for another , they will have to make their own distinct contributions . they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . in short , they will need to compel their own efforts to sustain a shared effort . what that distinct contribution could be from the outset will not be hard to define . after all , only the more ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to america will prevent eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive inter-ferences on the west bank and gaza , even as such a mindset would help to bolster the arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism , much as to provide a useful shove for american diplomacy .
one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make the study of illnesses and testing the drugs they need to rebuild . the topic was the obscure but large collections ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific type of genetic error – one that does take place in a cell machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and the biology of these diseases . earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . little is known about what kind of causes the mutations that give rise to these congenital disorders , with therapies exist for only a few .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell at the highest bidder . in ukraine , even universities are threatened : degrees regularly bought and sold . though corruption is more a symptom than a cause of ukraine ’s troubles , corruption culture must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might presume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen . in time , this “ corruption culture ” will permeate society .
in israel , obama would encounter a country that has indeed moved but not toward the missing center . “ red lines ” in israel have a disordered process drawn in lines drawn in the sand that are then rendered invisible by the slightest wind . nor , on the other hand , should anyone expect a full moratorium on the expansion of a settlement . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium would only reinforces this sober interpretation . by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing , rather than available in israel , thereby settle one of the country ’s great economic challenges for the middle class .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total spending this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues along this path , many expect next year ’s budget deficits to widen further . japan had a similar experience during the 1990s , the country ’s ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit skyrocketed following the country ’s burst , causing economic stagnation . indeed , despite japan ’s weakness in its fiscal position , the market for japanese government-bond holdings ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now .
its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold on power ; trumping and murdering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; transforming a fertile , prosperous country once thought africa ’s breadbasket into a place where more than half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , as exemplified by its attacks on the daily news , repressing critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , the heads of state of nearby members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power – met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges ahead of them . among 54 paragraphs of the summit final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe . the mugabe ’s regime carried out a series of outrage after outrage .
a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of national politics , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , just as state colleges and universities were concerned . and the american constitution allows the individual state to function as what the university of chicago economist brandeis called the laboratories of democracy by experimentation with innovative policies , without putting the rest of the country at risk . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , just as state colleges and universities were concerned . and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what the university of chicago economist brandeis called the laboratories of democracy by experimentation with innovative policies , without putting the rest of the country at risk .
europe needs to aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth , and the creation of competitive jobs . in other words , price stability reigns in the european union . so , should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? the current 0.3 % inflation rate is the result of a massive shortfall in commodity prices , and of the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . only greece currently has a slightly negative inflation rate .
the implication is that because speculation can drive higher prices and increase their inventory holdings even as total commercial inventories remain little change . additionally , perhaps oil market speculation has induced “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products to protect against future price-hikes . they then take delivery on their premises so that overall refined inventories rise , but that increase is not part of their reported commercial inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , as it tends to occur against a background of intense fundamentals . as a result , record-high speculative price prices have probably caused house traders to release inventory , yet those releases may have been purchase by traders who are now active lesview of business storage capacity .
but the two states are lacking the domestic revenue they need to sustain their institutions . if they hope to survive well into the next century , they will probably have to subsumed under the union backed by a larger , more powerful , and established nation-state . such a state , whether to extradite de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting impact on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and of the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has overthrew some regimes , if not others . furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue witnessing – will reverberate beyond the arab map of the creation of a sovereign kurdish state .
so risk management , by smoothing bumps in incomes , may well be especially important in alleviating the poverty effects . we have a tendency to think that new risk-management products such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least relatively wealthy individuals . in fact , new risk-management products are being developed for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america . it is important to recognize that many of the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . good fortunes and bad fortunes alternate randomly , and leaving the world ’s poorest people especially vulnerable when misfortune , like a hurricane in a insecure peasant , strikes .
that disconnect is nothing new ; there has always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . in novgorod i have seen lukoil ( one of russia ’s large private oil companies ) coasts . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , though he sometimes proclaimed his allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( the people of russia ) , deprived – or set off , it is a matter of opinion – russians of all their collective lives ; both are true of shared hardship and an imaginary half-way of communist solidarity . today , everyone trades on life and hardship individually ( the next word in our everyday vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin wants to make a living . indeed , even the russian uniformity is different time there .
a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” replaced quotas and desirability screenings would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks of destination and source countries . reversible bonds would operate like an insurance mechanism on both sides , shielding destination countries from the expense of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting source countries from the costs associated with the loss of their talented workers . but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration , most eu countries , including the united states and the united kingdom , seek to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workers . greater international cooperation , in turn , would maximize immigration ’s potential benefits .
germany , the european country ’s top-performing country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % of the average annual growth over the past six years . real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic ( it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . every downturn , in turn , is likely to grow again . the mark of a good policy is that it succeeds in making its downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been . the mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as pope of the past . his first return visit to his homeland soon afterwards showed for the entire world of the new pope ’s power . some had been horrified ; others had wept at joy . here , the prominent writer was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” yet , by no means in our euphoria , we expected not just how badly a new pope to change not only poland but the world .
after all , restraint , after all , is not a leninist virtue . though surely the hong kong courts could have handled the matter themselves under the “ “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system , in addition to its right to elect its own legislature , the enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee has stepped in to “ clarify ” the article 104 of its flagship law , saying that all of the oaths ’ which office-holders have adopted must be solemn , accurate , comprehensive , and sincere . to most hong kong lawyers , a display of political authority has not represented simply a reinterpretation of the old rules , but a move towards making new ones . yau and leung have been barred from taking their seats in the legislative council .
reebok , the multinational sportswear company , advertises its corporate code as being “ based on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the international labour organization ( ilo ) reports that trade unions are in retreat by most nations . the company markets its online soccer balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed child labor ” label . prodded by groups like a consortium of workers and an ethical trading initiative , certain corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even give their employees a voice in the workplace . but human-rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline .
new york – earlier this month , the united states had already taken the next logical step . the us securities and exchange commission now requires companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these raw materials ’ provenance , as well as to mitigate risk within their supply chains in line with the oecd ’s guidelines if they are to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the 12 african member countries of the international conference on the big lakes region have committed themselves to similar compulsory due-diligence demands . responsible sourcing is a duty , not a choice . that is as it should be .
most of their productive and financial assets are state-owned by foreign firms , just as most of the rules that govern their economies have been determined by the eu . they conclude that they can have both ways , retain the advantages of economic integration , without losing their ability to infringe on their citizens ’ privileges or to use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relations and boost their hold across the state . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right in his hands , enabling orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move towards an ever-closer union and a boost in the federal authority and its legitimacy . the truth , though , is that cee countries have little to lose in the path of sovereignty .
the systemic crises in food , fuel , and finance that came to a head in 2008 – and that are ongoing in so many countries – have their roots in an economic paradigm that has not accounted for the value of nature and its array of life-supporting services . indeed , profound and pervasive market failures – on carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating ecological risks and ecological later in life , undermining human well-being and social equity . this is why the linchpin of governance and institutions on rio +20 is just as significant as the shift toward a green economy : markets are the human constructs that requires the rules and institutions that guide not just their direction , but their limits as well . in fact , as the just-released report “ toward a green economy : pathways for sustainable development and poverty-reduction eradication shows , ” market economies that were currently constituted have led to the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . one concern among critics is that the transition to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profitering behavior of bankers and traders , whose failings have helped trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years
by this standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks have made me an islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza came at exactly the same time that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern , kurdish peacemakers published books about how the task should go properly to regulate themselves . third , israel charged with the anti-semitism of those who dared criticize its disproportionate reaction to hamas ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment for the palestinians . an italian cardinal , admittedly speaking intemperately , was accused of using the language of holocaust denial . it all sounded a little like a series of us job requests – a war for president barack obama ’s ear .
a similar political imperative lies at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism that has made a abrupt return to public life in sri lanka . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s ruling democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election , an outcome that he then looked down on annul – was supposed to end both his career and race-baiting politics . the sinhalese ’s religious and ethnic passions were emboldened during the closing , bloody pushback that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war by the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils after their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . but a former president is now mounting a furious comeback bid , and might well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
schools all over the world , from north america to northern nigeria , are now in need of security plans to ensure their school ’s safety and establish trust in parents and their communities . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ false ” or “ western ” education is a “ forbidden . ” ) in at least 30 countries , there is a concerted pattern of assaults by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria all affected . such assaults expose with stark clarity that provides an education with little concern for blackboards , books , and curricula . these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms are becoming the true targets of terrorist attacks , who see education as a threat .
global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugee networks and hire them for online work . some , like tent , encourage companies to hire refugees and integrate them into the supply chains where they live . modest seed financing may go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . more scholarship opportunities for refugees , together with increased financing for schools within and outside of refugee settlements , would be hugely welcome . meanwhile , some companies and organizations , including wework , ikea , and jeffrey d. sachs , are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees .
this is why it is increasingly being denied in favor of the agro-ecological model based on the principles of “ food sovereignty ” . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in cannes el sheikh hasina , egypt , for the 14th meeting of the parties ’ landmark conference to the convention on biological diversity ( the un conference on biodiversity biological diversity ) . while there , they will consider whether to press the brakes on gene drives , ensure that farmers – and indigenous peoples – are fully consulted before such technologies are unleashed within their communities . the latter approach , epitomized by the un human rights council , urges farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another , and to protect local ecosystems . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies , just as peasant farmers ’ rights have been worldwide .
the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession is settled . the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into an electoral endorsement by his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will this suffice to create a kind of chávista lineage ? nor is it perfectly clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was in fact dead before his passing can be announced . buying time to ensure his own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near-shutdown while undergoing complicated and agonizing cancer treatments , that he continues to “ walking and exercising ” for himself .
likewise , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the character of technological innovation . for them , a key barrier will remain that existing technologies enable insufficient factor substitution room : employing less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital . demanding quality standards necessary to supply global value chains can not be met easily by substituting machines with manual labor . governments in developed countries , too , have a role to play in influencing the nature of technological innovation . such policies are unlikely to make much difference to the developing world .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will take office have received almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he is working with a republican senate majority , whose members have won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . likewise , trump will launch his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before he scrapped it ) , in the history of such ratings . in fact , a us government of the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic . with only the republican majority in the house of representatives led by speaker paul ryan , trump has any claim to represent a numerical majority of the 55 % of americans who voted on the upcoming 2016 election .
the s-400 feud is just the most recent example of how us military procurement matters have created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s view , its western partners have not done nearly enough , through technology transfers and joint-production schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industries . by contrast , the chinese – and , to a lesser extent , russian – firms have been much receptive to such turkish demands as part of a us army of latter procurements . and domestic-distorting interests in the region are just part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are both experiencing a geopolitical , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threatening perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict .
underdevelopment in many southern african countries , faring badly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world , is creating the conditions for desperately impoverished poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond the control of atrophying state systems . as we embark on the still-new 2000s , while it seems ironically clear that the reason for tomorrow ’s possible disorder might be due , in no small part , to yesterday ’s colonial order . this is not to say that our reactions to the dangers emerging from the past ’s legacies must be rooted in the past . we wo n’t forge a better world in the 100-century by forgetting what happened in june 19 , and a large part of the 20 th . there is a greater need than ever to put innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance .
in bilateral missile negations with moscow , american officials offer four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · an underlying legal framework to promote such and other cooperative projects . · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers that russian personnel can see non-threatening nature in us and nato missile-defense activities ; · expanded nato-russia theater-level exercises that are building on earlier collaboration , disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 russo-georgian war , and rehearsing how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; and · joint iranian expert studies concerning how bmd might affect russian nuclear deterrent and which steps can be taken to minimize potential problems ;
his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) , and to curtail growth in medicaid spending , have been unsuccessful . and a temporary increase in defense spending will revert to insufficient levels after this fiscal year . under these conditions , trump will probably run into the greatest and boldest policy proposals early will probably run into budget constraints . while the tax package that trump has signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and is currently helping the economy grow , government revenues have so far responded a lot to the benefits of this growth . having already abandoned any change to the welfare state , he has just ruled out .
the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite contentious demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve its jewish national identity . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably wo n’t prevent the eu from delivering a split vote , reverberations not only echo throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries across the middle east and north africa . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve its jewish statehood . granting observer-state status to palestine would take on the table the prospect of a “ one-state ” solution that has lately gained momentum among experts .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information ’s absence when something is blocked – that is , letting people know that it exists , but that they can not have access to it . by contrast , every time someone in china googles something and receives a response – a product of goodness and bad points , the details of someone ’s government does n’t like – he has to wonder , “ why ca n’t i have this sort of information about everything ? ” with google , people begin anticipating answers about everything . rather than demanding an end to the censors now – an impossible dream – google works to ensure that it happen , by eroding government ’s control over information . rather than just calling for the end of the censors , the impossible dream – google works to make that happen , by eroding government ’s control of information .
while no outcome was formally agreed or made public , a number of themes emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there has been widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( the r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that if a state is “ the seemingly failed ” to protect their own people , the wider international community has the responsibility to step in , with “ timely and decisive action , ” which might include military action , if approved by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise , especially its sanction of military action , in exceptional cases , is just “ old , neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ” taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that it may be possible to recreate an international consensus , making the long missing from syria about how to deal with the hardest mass-atrocity cases .
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle the advantages of globalization . global integration brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor , which is so clearly manifested by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic advantages such as the economies of scale and the rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to another , which is less easily evidence of static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic advantages like freedom of choice coupled with an international movement of goods , capital , and people ; and the freedom of thought linked to the international movement of ideas . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need a better understanding of these better if we want the system to survive . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and steadfast efforts to correct and contain a system ’s shortcomings . so , indeed , the global economy should be thinking of the way the global capitalist system has become .
worse for trump , a widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit to the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial justice department policy , intended to help president richard nixon , bars mueller ’s indictment against a sitting president . this is n’t in a constitution or law . ( nixon was an unindicted co-conspirator in the watergate burglary burglary , whereas trump is one in new york involving his pre-election participation in order to silence two women , with whom he held sex liaisons shortly after his son , barron . ) trump has portraying the report ’s findings as wholly exonerating him ( no collusion , no obstruction ) , even though the report explicitly made that this was n’t the case .
moreover , russia has been enforcing a full-fledged georgian trade embargo in hopes of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to react militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only bring the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain on relations with armenia because there are near the 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the breakaway government . another risk in southern caucasus is that russia ( with armenian backing ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-recognition independence from azerbaijan . in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s other secession-minded region has indeed protected their rebel-controlled governments .
europeans need to make progress on the first opportunity if they seize the second , and that means strengthening the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered an ambitious proposal : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for italy , and a european parliament ( composed of european parliament members and national parliamentarians ) to hold a finance minister accountable . in the short run , a new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in their present form . well before germany formed the new coalition government , a franco-german working group was established to weigh macron ’s proposals . now that merkel ’s new administration is up to , we will see how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion .
moreover , a recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to the more balanced public-private mix in development finance . the financial crisis has also spurred some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand theirs . today , they are an important feature of most advanced , middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably china , germany , india , indonesia , and south korea . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets have reached some $ 5 trillion in 2015 . and large ndbs can have a large impact , especially in emerging economies .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection process , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ blueprint would essentially resolve one great deal issue – the rundown of britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s diplomatic service , by creating a much larger problem : britain ’s loss of soft power . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish army ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on the state power that make liberal democracy work . so , what should the united states and other governments that promote liberal democracy do now ? after all , if the choice for the islamists remains bullets or ballooning , bullets may now look more hopeful . the answer could have influenced egypt ’s political future , and the country ’s europe-wide countries .
this not only undermines their capacity to do their jobs efficiently ; it also puts them at a significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as a western ploys to sterilize and spy on muslims . this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs efficiently ; it also puts them at a significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilized and spy on muslims . yet the world continues to underreport the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers .
as soon as the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into the thin air , a series of waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . for its part , the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitics : bringing the ex-soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . initially , nato ’s new members were declared that both democratic and military criteria had met . later those criteria were abandoned when nato began inviting even the most backward and corrupt states to join . moreover , nato not only expanded its membership ; it was also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
maybe this proximity has been at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . ironically , this has guided the imf to focus on its oversight role . the fund usually expects that problems come from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis erupted a few miles off its headquarters . so , in searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can exclude a distraction from more urgent matters . if so , this is a failure that raises two key questions .
it is this concrete “ marriage of reason between france and the un , ” which is vital to understanding the french position on libya . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the green light to french action there . it is this concrete “ marriage of reason , ” which applies to france and the un , which is vital to understanding the french position on libya . indeed , france ’s equivalent relationship with the un , which led the country ’s opposition to military intervention in iraq in 2003 , has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . it is a shift that raises the major question : if those who are prepared to act clearly incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” what will happen to global stability unless those who are capable are also willing to step in ?
but if that hour was really a lunch with a us lobbyist , then both ( and their aides ) would need to lie straight into hiding it . when an official meets with a lobbyist and is n’t ashamed , he can simply say so . to be sure , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . like the us , voters can make their own judgments , and they will help to persuade them . and if an official meets mostly with lobbyists , at the expense of other kinds of meetings , voters can turn judgments on that , too .
and there is a risk that the tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop a near-identical product , and their vast legal resources to defend it . it is notable that big tech has still derives most of its income from its company ’s core products – apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office , and google search engine . big tech firms might argue that all the capital they pour into new products and services is pushing innovation . one suspects , though , that in many circumstances , the intent seems to be to nip potential competition in the bud . hence , in practical terms , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely to be buried as nourished .
historically , both state and federal attorney general generals have preferred to prosecute “ occasional ” merchants who stick out like ed thumb . in other words , precisely because occasional merchants trade rarely , it is much easier to prove the nexus of the causality between their trades and the illegal ttip . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades on a daily basis . for example , when a tiny italian bank was awarded from someone who never traded a big order for the part of america ’s shoe shares shortly before the company was acquired by italian eyewear maker luxottica , the fish it created were not hard to smell . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such a link has come through intel surveillance .
roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and infants live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still account for more than twice the number of likely boys to carry the virus . yet barely one-third of adolescent africans know how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is used as a tactic to be a war used in the first place . african girls , too , are consistently vulnerable to contracting the hiv problem .
new york – many historians and economists are insisting that we are living in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . that might be true in most of this era , or at least it is possible . but moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history . the actions and decisions of one man or a woman , no matter how potent , can not determine the destiny of nations . that was certainly true in russia , and may soon turn out to be true in turkey as it is .
according to the un climate panel , christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the capability to rein in their predicted temperature rise to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by no means well below the estimated four , five , or about more degrees of warming projected by many of the previous one . ” figueres has suggested that the paris accord will cut nearly 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ºc to 2.7 ° c. though her wording was crafted to avoid in fact saying this was , predictably , about what most people were heard . as i show in a new , peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the agreement reached in paris would have cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 ºc . that may seem surprising : we repeatedly hear how each country made its important commitments to reduce carbon dioxide emissions , its so-called intended nationally determined contributions , ” or the indcs . rising sea levels would have declined by a mere 1.3 centimeters .
anti-european political forces obviously make electoral inroads and will continue to have gained ground to date as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high . an alternative vision holds , of course , that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . this would require eu policymakers to move away from the view that each country is uniquely responsible for getting its own house in order , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer an practical challenge , because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too few effective adjustment mechanisms . in the meantime , the eu will most likely fail to pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms at the near-term , because it could adversely affect the outcomes of consequential elections in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy .
and on september 9 , while local-government elections did take place , tens of thousands of russian cities joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying a prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could n’t attend the event , after being arrested for a previous un-sanctioned show . next year , the pension reform was announced , spurring a string of protests that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure while asking for russians ’ understanding . russians realized that they did not need to win by any cost ; they might be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . yet , just like september 3 , 53 % of the population said they were prepared to protest farther .
by the time europe and china had crossed pathways in the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and had thus compelled china into a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions into their . the imperial dynasty broke down in 1911 under external pressures and internal demands for change . change , however , did not come smooth in the sense of the term . china squandered its own economic and technological potential , not because of external force .
these cities ’ apparent success as both governments and economic centers attests to the fact that urban land derives the value from the presence of a well-planned town there . where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic planning step and the creation of a whole city there . true , building such cities is a relatively rare occurrence . but they are prone to ingenious at developing glamorous new fields from little towns within a one-hour ’s commute from major cities . private developers have trouble getting an outsize plot free of restrictions .
so far , the venezuelan elite , as well as much of the investment community , has assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , only badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis to happen , but chavez has to choose venezuela ’s future . if he pursues a statist/populist collapse , 2001 will be a crisis year . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , a path to growth and stability will provide a path for growth and stability . it can last for one thing , but will create increasing friction with the economic redistribution and increased incentive for chavez to become authoritarian .
growth is predicated on a return above a 2005-06 trend , bringing the current cycle to an end . huge surpluses in the three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits forecast over the coming two years . the average “ current-account surplus ” surplus since this cycle has started to grow to 0.8 % of gdp . this means that the treasury expects the average excess of the 1992000 level to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp , until the cycle ends , to allow brown ’s strictures . but it is more pessimistic for independent forecasters .
instead , strategies have emerged from the view that all of our behaviors are really selfish , with the intellectual challenge of designing “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that was also recognized by nobel prizes . however , since the price of george w. bush showed long ago , a darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least to people we perceive as members of a group that we call , “ us , i believe . ” the new revolution in economics may find room for a strategy that relies on ideals and identities , not just on taxes and subsidies . if successful , the new revolution may well lead us to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels . in the process , we might understand that we are voting because it is what our citizens ought to do , and excel at our workplaces , because we strive for deference and self-realization , not just the raising .
such openly thuggish rulers as ukraine ’s kuchma or belarus ’s lukashenka are nearly impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato command ( that is , american ) control , thus any attempt to initiate a coup , or stirring up trouble between the romanians and our sizeable hungarian minority , may be avoided . the more tightly bound a country like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or to eviscerate its democratic system . nato fixes hard limits the autonomy of local political elites . to be sure , nato can not safeguard democracy alone and is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and uphold the rule of law .
the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor the mounting evidence of worsening regime performance in china has convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . an obvious explanation lies in the power of conventional thinking . in fact , the effects of leadership delegitimation are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and loss of governments ’ credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor the mounting evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china has persuaded even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . an apparent explanation is the power of conventional thinking .
when it comes to a diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what the british gamblers would call “ form the ” form . some readers might say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who falsely said , gaveled his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960s , should steer a clear of a topic of world leaders ’ manners . but there is a point about a recent conduct . on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining his or her room , by employing a chamber pot that he had brought out china . maybe he suspected that stalin , as the bbc allegedly over last year , had been collecting and covering his feces in glean information on the great helmsman temperament .
that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” ” ” or kremlin-backed loyalists want to check the protest movement and take its place as a lever in ultimate struggle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s army and security apparatus ) . until recently , loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing a government that should somehow influence it through a constructive suggestion . system liberals ’ belief that russia , by contrast , has built a tolerable market economy . its further development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled economic-reform policies . true , the potential heir nowadays requires legitimacy , not only from the powerful oligarchs , but also from the street .
my office is paying close attention to chechnya , even though this can not easily be undone by moscow . my office has worked closely with the state to help assure that in most cases the juries are being used . similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( a new moment ) pressured moscow city ’s government on the pretext of conducting a commercial dispute about a lease on life . this struggle is not an end in itself , but after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities need to reflect on the public ’s negative attitude toward their struggle for quash that publication . to be sure , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights problems , like the fifa war in chechnya or the yukos affair .
new delhi – international discussion about china ’s rise has centered on its increasing trading muscle , its growing maritime ambitions , and its expanding capacity to project military power . one critical issue , though one , usually inhabits attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical rank . asia ’s waters map has fundamentally changed in the wake of china ’s 1949 communist victory . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by controlling the headwaters of multiple transnational rivers and manipulating its cross-border river flows . with slightly more than half of the roughly 50,000 large dams on the planet , china is quickly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on supranational rivers .
the fact that financial institutions have escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . in the us , holding workdays elections , rather than weekends or holidays , coupled with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules , places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage . at the same time , they run risks to economic stability without offering a compensating advantage regarding increased investment in productive activities . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at a minimum , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as it is for economic reform , they need to be complemented with measures that redress the political asymmetry of access .
the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in regions israel occupied in 1967 . for israel , an occupying power , whose peoples enjoy democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that of men , denying the basic rights of liberty and autonomy , the photo opportunity afforded by meeting , and greeting palestinian leaders , has replaced peace . a serious look back on the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and the settlers has more than doubled in areas israel occupied in 1967 . leaders of the world ’s great superpowers , the united nations officials , the elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their service to bring about a peaceful transition .
in other words , the export miracle sparked not by state-sponsored chinese firms but by the offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west . in personal relationships , denial tends to mask imbalances , but only for so long . such is the case with the us and china . this has given rise to the economic equivalent of a crisis of personal identity : who is china – them it or the us ? ultimately , the denial cracks and imbalances convey to frictions and to blame , say , holding a codependent partner accountable to one ’s own problems .
as lamy put it , nearly 80 % of that curry is prepared ; we need only additional spices by the major players – india , the european union , brazil , and china . these can be provided in the politically palatable way , which also means that the doha conclusion is within our reach , not beyond our grasp . that is true , of course , but that does n’t make this view less naive . but just as why bother keeping to continue their efforts ? if doha fails , some say , but that does n’t make this view less naive .
given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has become a priority . in turn , lukashenko has decided , for economic reasons , that his country needs eu support and can no longer depend solely on russia , without paying a heavy political price . the eu has also awakened suddenly to the need for a joint external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . but a thaw in eu-belarus relations needs to be based on reciprocal , lasting steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic drop in its natural capital . plant and animal species are worldwide vanishing at an unprecedented rate – from about 100 to 1,000 today ’s natural extinction rate . for a planet ’s most at-risk ecosystems are located in developing countries , and therefore depend on some of the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s neediest communities for maintaining them . conversely , the most impoverished are the first to suffer a degradation of their own natural environment . yet , in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile environment is rarely a national priority .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , the price of utility-powered solar power in africa has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to plummet this decade . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent powerhouse producer ’s procurement program has seen its overall drop in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – the immigration-related headlines have become a kind of staple in europe , whether the narrative is an illegal , malian immigrant scaling up the paris building to rescue a toddler or creating a populist government in italy that seeks to deport a half-million migrants . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled in part by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe driving down wages . since the vote , by contrast , the anti-brexit camp has engaged with similar distortions , with a warning that once it has left the european union , the uk will face a skill shortage . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , switzerland , and singapore – are doing just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries , by issuing skills-matching visas . and yet , despite steady coverage to an issue – or , more likely , precisely because of it – the eu ’s migrant policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization .
it does not include increased amounts of goods and services delivered at a negative incremental cost ; nor does the non-material side of individual well-being , or more generally social progress . looking ahead , equal-cost dynamics promise big increases across a wide range of areas of well-being . the gdp problem is not that it is the poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but rather that it is inherently incomplete . most health-care professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer diagnoses ( particularly for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform noninvasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . that is not to suggest that we should scrap ( or revise gdp ) or revise its limitations .
whereas psephological studies in the united states have demonstrated that the poor do not vote in substantial numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem turnout in harlem , who averaged 23 % in front of barack obama with the two candidacies ) , the reverse is true across india . in india , it is the poor who take the time to follow through on the hot sun , believing that their votes will make a difference , whereas the more privileged voters , knowing that their views , and the numbers , will do little to influence the outcome , have stayed home . major changes in india ’s social composition of politicians and bureaucrats since independence are indeed proof of the workout democracy at work . yet many lament that the country ’s poor performance in a universal bid for celebration . studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest one party in the numbers well above the national average , while the well-educated middle-class turn out in number well below it .
it amounts to a great “ show of both , ” with all of the ingredients derived from a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling conspiracy twist : the coming of a “ third man , ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now take a seriously . as a result , should we be watching the french presidential campaign with a mixture of admiration or alarm ? or perhaps a little of both , if not more , than one of them are ? first and foremost , italy has found out in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy ’s two remarkable spokespersons over his candidacy .
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating assaults on a rules-based trading system . japan has recently agreed to negotiations a preferential trade deal with the united states that might challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation that states that any concessions or privileges granted to a single country as part of a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . here , japan is again acting “ voluntarily , ” under severe pressure . according to the press reports , trump presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports or face increased american tariffs on cars and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s ’s agricultural market would , it seems , punishing trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union links , as well as his working-class rapport , to achieve a social pact that focuses on sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin american economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force calls for high job-creation rates . emulating the dutch experience with job-creation provides brazil ’s surest path to alleviating poverty in the world . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch socio-economic model -- countries far too different for this .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than a national aircraft rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger cigarette control regulation and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functions for a democracy that online activity does , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . hence , the civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950 ’s and 1960s often evoked the “ sense of our numbers . ” in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ thought simply that they would be in the physical space ” there , ” a reasonable response would have been : “ really , occupying public spaces can accomplish a high enough , depending on who the occupiers are , and how many they number ” ” .
economic commentators , for their part , are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than they are at predicting future trends . there has been no abrogation of the north american free-trade agreement . so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s decline over the past year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . a favorite explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . on trade , there has been no across-the-board import tariff .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . to me , this view explains much better than the orthodox account why , for all money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the us economic recovery has petered out . just as lenders were not able to force money on the public front before the crisis , so now they ca n’t force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek loans to expand their output when markets are flat or shrinking . to be sure , some worry about a collapse of the household saving rate has been felt ; but few have overly worried . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays have taken the form of houses .
the enormously successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have just done that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became entwined with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements have been obvious : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social wage ” increases on medicare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a more liberal , internationalist foreign policy . by contrast , the current alp government has struggled until now to re-create anything as compelling . but there seem to be some fundamental rules of political survival ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling it out may help both the alp and the rest remember them . the first rule is to have a philosophy – and a philosophy to stick .
finally , in order to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants per year , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church groups , and companies – to treat it as its sponsors . this will require not only sufficient funding , but also the human and capacity to match the suffering of migrants and sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria should never have become a crisis of its own . for a long time , it was easy to foresee and eminently manageable to european and international communities . this marks a fifth piece of the comprehensive plan .
furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are unfortunately adverse . a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and the oil companies ’ share declines . these would be the same in a rescheduled economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be discarded , and additional investment in order to make gdp less carbon-intensive . but the problem does not come from the use of the consumer price instrument . with recent estimates putting the required incremental investment at some 2 % of gdp per year in 2040 , an correspondingly smaller output share will be in the case of household consumption .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . and , besides , things could have gotten far worse . since the start of the brexit negotiations , we across the eu – the 27 member states and the european parliament – have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests or lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority , first and foremost , was to secure the rights of europe ’s citizens , including by finding a solution for the peoples of northern ireland and the republic of ireland , for whom the negotiations were all about peace and stability – not just in trade and economies . because of the withdrawal agreement that prevailed this past october , a destructive , hard ” brexit has gone astray .
and nothing has attenuated the tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . such has been the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent advocate of american expansionism : “ a mere war is , in the long run , much better for a people ’s soul than it is with the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize winner with an apology for “ just wars . ” the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade that it has lasted for many years . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces outcomes only when a backed power .
other sunni gulf monarchies , as well as egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . at the same time , politics has supersede the status of religion in israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . yet today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the last of saudi arabia ’s worries . so fundamental are the changes in the kingdom ’s strategic interests that , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , it said nothing when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ”
no day passes without major headlines about large mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations fulfill rackets . in france , big strategic plays are underway in banks and fashions ; italy is witnessing its major players position on the european and global scale . no one can say how deep the changes will go , nor how quickly europe will shift into a fast lane . in sum , the old continent looks hot to switzerland for a while . europe is abuzz with mergers not only to seize the wider economic space europe but also to confront tough competition in world markets .
greece ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore confidence in the markets and their own citizens . greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis provided a stark warning that european policymakers must not allow public debt to pile up indefinitely . recent studies show that once a government ’s debt burden reaches a threshold perceived as unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . the eu was right to react decisively to safeguard europe ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism .
in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as did marxists and freemasons as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalties were suspicious . not thought to be part of the native russians , jews assumed to belong to an international cabal , and thus to be inherently treacherous . but , in many ways , stalin did as well as a success story . it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from a nativist movement that is antagonistic to ethnic or religious minorities or fiscal or intellectual elites , who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . to prewar fascists , the rest of america was often perceived as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence .
the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is straightforward . salafi jihadism is not organization , but an ideological trend based on the core belief that the armed tactic of all sorts is the most effective – and to some versions of it – the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . it should come above the constitution and not the article for a referendum . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind the islamist onslaught ? “ they should not come near the shariah . ”
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since signing the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( gcc ) and israel . in each case , israel now seems to have fallen the charade . in london earlier this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer a question from the israeli press about his support for a two-state solution . he recently stated that his ultimate goal is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ nation minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty . their hope is surely dimmed further when they saw the bulldozers arrive to prepare the ground for new settlements – not an extraordinary occurrence .
structural shifts to economies that experienced sharply falling interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now need to be pushed fast , mired in crisis , and no luxury of devaluation . the pro-europe foundation was , in part , the promise of constantly up-front prosperity . the euro ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s design flaw – policy-motivated economic union but expressed in economics – has gone unnoticed . the pain that this policy produces was exposed in protests throughout the continent , and in the bitter impact on many struggling families , the young , and the elderly . at the moment , that promise is severely in question .
german corporatism , of course , did not allow any such solution : unions wanted their wages to be protected . indeed , the only way to secure them was for the government to pay lots of unemployment compensation in a high-wage east germany . reunification meant that everybody gets not only the benefit , say , of western german economic institutions , of property rights , and of hard money , but also of all disastrously negative institutions : unions , overpaid unemployment and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . reunification meant that everybody gets not only those profits from western german economic institutions – property rights and hard money , but also all of the disastrously negative institutions : east germany , overpaid unemployment and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . the problem after all is not in east germany but rather in the west .
amman – until recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , nifaz , has offered a unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted , not only in the middle east , but also in the united states as well . this notion is of a hegemonic iran that seeks to dominate the region through a combination of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza , baghdad , and , finally , from iran to yemen . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in an iranian foothold ” on israel ’s borders , and thus not just politically naïve but irrational .
stanford – successful political candidates are trying to implement the proposals on which they ran . in the united states , president barack obama and democrats , control the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had all the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and so do . the recent election , which followed such sweeping changes in policy direction , occurred in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending and regulation fueled the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . while the 1988 , 1992 , and the 2000 ’s , respectively , and the 2000 ’s were also quite consequential , policy shifts were nowhere near as great as they were in 1980 and 2008 . obama and his congressional allies enacted a $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill loaded with programs geared toward key democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted sweeping , highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality would be fixed by the supreme court later this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced industrial policies that selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending levels far exceeded only in world war ; whose constitutionality would be decided by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; imposed by federal power , within and in washington , as well as well as well as a result , in regulatory agencies , and regulatory authority , and government .
opponents of trade liberalization decry secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges entrepreneurship over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . developing countries complain about the restrictive rules that apply to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) and the fear that new demands that they confront labor - and environmental externalities are designed to undermine their competitiveness . all sides agree that the stability of the international economy revives on a global rules-based system . what is disputed is the nature of these rules .
most notably , unlike most other , resource-dependent economies , it has been successful in diversifying the economy , to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with an tourism leader leading the way . yet , fighting for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob argues , namibia must defend the freedoms that it has won . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , making it difficult for any government to preserve and enhance them . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands to favors from corporate and other interest groups .
the vulnerability of gordon ’s ’s ’s ’s argument is his shortened time horizons of ir #3 . consider the following four phrases during his manifesto , · “ at a minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . ” · the inventions of ir # 2 were so important … that they had taken a full 100 years to have their main effect on ” ” ; · both the first two revolutions required roughly 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy .
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to the inflows that will inevitably drive their exchange rates to stem rising unemployment and jeopardize export-led growth . the first option is simply to do nothing and to let the currency appreciate . that may be the right response if inflows and upward pressure on the exchange rate are driven by fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , the undervalued currency , the big and persistent growth differential ) . but , on many cases , inflows are fueled by short-run factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that can cause an overvalued currency , a crowding out of noncompetitive non-traditional export industries or import-competing sectors , loss of competitiveness , and , in turn , large current account deficits and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is compounded by the fact that the world ’s ’s ’s ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
moreover , the fall in the unemployment rate largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . if the labor-force participation rate were 66 % , as it did in early 2008 rather than 62.8 % like it was in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be only far above 11 % , not the 6.7 % level . plunging debt service is mostly an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the money supply remains excessive , consumers would dismiss the interest-rate reduction as nothing more than a temporary band-aid . yes , there has been some progress on the path to recovery .
but while she likes to raise her voice , she acts with prudence : today , germany ’s fiscal adjustment is in reality very gradual . she then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically-adjusted deficit to 1.5 % of gdp this year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . so the countries facing fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and japan , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on a offensive . on the assumption office , he has entrusted budget forecasting to a new , independent office for fiscal responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any opportunity for a sleight-of-hand .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one vital feature of egypt ’s peace with israel . other great , independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subject for decades to the constraints of acquiring some types of weapons and military equipment . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees claiming a right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just . are they returning to their homes and the farms that no longer exist ? to what sense would it pave the way for millions of palestinians to a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them , a state where a majority belongs to another ethnic group ?
among other things , berlusconi altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from ever regaining full power once again , by blocking any criminal charges that might be leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among others , would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . a victory for hofer might add to his wind to le pen ’s sails . the constitutional changes that renzi may ’s yes campaign is appealing for voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as a prime example of the damaging right-wing populism can do to the country . in austria , voters would choose between a pro-european – and an anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norman hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treating any form of collective action as subversive , can see it as a reflection of a growing security sense . conversely , some of china ’s most alarming moves may be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish by his activism ? still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly ’s critic , liu xiaobao , who has just sentenced 11 years in jail on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties .
but it makes a difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad . within the developed world , concerns about such behavior have long been drawn by the so-called " predation '' of its -- and the well-defined standards . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such principles to the international arena , make it irrelevant whether a producer is domestic or foreign when assessing whether it is engaged in an unfair trading practice . but debates about competition and fair trade are once again demonstrating intellectual poverty and a inequity in trade negotiations . anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade by tariff avoidance .
with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating much of the country ’s political agendas , all will be excessively easy for a commitment to wane . if anything , continued leadership from the summit – above all by obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will be indispensable . arms control and disarmament are a grinding , unglamorous , unglamorous business , which brings few fast returns . but initiating treaty ratification is going nowhere fast in the american senate , and progress on other crucial issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; beginning negotiations over a new prohibition of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; a strengthening of effective action to detect violations and discourage walk-ups ; reaching agreement on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , more recently , launching serious rounds of serious rounds , involving two nuclear disarmament , not just the nuclear talks , but the eight superpowers . but there are many massive contributions that less powerful states and leaders , along with civil-society organizations , can make .
i had just toured these cells in the first place : killing one by one means or another . their interiors resemble inside the smooth jar plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . i had just toured these cells : killing oneself in them is literally impossible . i had just toured these cells : killing one by one or another . their interiors resemble homs in a smooth case of plastic jar ; there are no hard ones ; hooks fold ; there is no bedding to which one could be used to strangle oneself .
moreover , because more must be done to enhance a world of understanding of gender-based violence , unodc work with the international community to develop a closer and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing related risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and use of alcohol . but gathering information is only one step toward closing loopholes when it comes to criminal laws and overcoming gaps in prevention policies . decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates , which remains low in many countries . in south africa , for example , unodc has established three centers ( in mazon-female , eastern cape , and northern cape ) offering legal attorney and reproductive medical services to women , and working with males to help break the cycle of domestic violence .
beyond a return of history alone , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for around two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just a third year ago , when portfolio diversification was nearly completely a domestic affair . a key driver of the higher ex ex post real returns are the comparatively high coupon such sovereign bonds offering . adding to the attractiveness of an emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , the returns are not completely correlated with returns on equity . moreover , there is mounting evidence that creditor prerogatives and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have risen following america ’s recent court judgements . such findings are not an invitation to the admitting of indiscriminate risk .
what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wreck . in countries ( sweden , for example ) , where recourse loans allow seizure of household incomes to enforce payments of mortgage obligations , private consumption can plummet as debt-payment schemes ( and , over time , rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . one way or another , the outcome would be the same : recession and stagnation . but higher home prices are rising , the additional they decline in value – and the larger the collateral economic and financial damage that it will be when the property bubble deflates . in countries where npls allow borrowers to walk away from a mortgage at a time when their value exceeds that of their home , a housing-market bust can then lead to massive defaults and banking crises .
tensions are particularly acute within saudi arabia , which signaled an american threat to iraq ’s possible slide , and it is now finding itself in an unequal face-on the border with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , stand up for sunni arab interests , and become a hands-on regional power . in this view , america , not iran , has produced the region ’s current difficulties . but the arab world is divided over how to cope with the precipitous rise of iranian power . other saudis believe that confrontation will only lead to broader wars and invite dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to ending the trade war remains far from clear . after all , both leaders reached a similar deal at the previous g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks finally failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their happiness once again , knowing that , at worst , they would then reallocate them . when asked to choose between taking on posterity as a central banker who let the system collapse and the intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take a genius to predict a central banker ’s decision . even though the authorities insist that the next time would be different , everyone knows that they would make the same decision when confronted with the same choice again . encouraging democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in industries that are economically or politically important , like finance or the real-estate business , that enable them to privatize gains and socialize losses . so , knowing that next time will be no different , the authorities are trying their best in order to avoid a “ “ future ” of the next time .
when the main object of human consumption was food , this was not a problem because what mattered was land and water . but in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what might matter increasingly are the cost of transport , which means that geography can create deep regional inequalities . among the big continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a tiny segment of the coastline but vast interior regions . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country embarked on its market-based reforms and opened up to the world . though such disparities may obviously have other causes , geography does seem to explain a lot .
that leaves aside the additional lesson , gained from the experience , that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive for increased lending . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in the us in 2009 , it would have been difficult , or no other , money to get more of it for an troubled asset relief program . the notion that some version of the soros plan would speed up growth is speculative at best . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of falling mortgage prices on aggregate demand ( which the us performed and which johnson and soros did n’t ) ignore their claims : extra spending per dollar of forbearance probably did less work than dime to the dollar of governments expended on the dollar of government resources . the bulk of the gains from the mortgage reduction flows to consumers only over time .
keynes ’s dictum has become the ruling wisdom of monetary policymaking ( one of his few to survive ) . governments , according to the conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with a modest bias toward inflation to stimulate businessmen ’ “ animal spirits ” and shoppers ’ “ animal spirits . ” because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict harm on the economy . in the ten years that followed the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of around 2 % to give economies a price-stability “ anchor . ” rising prices reduce the value of savings and pensions , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encourage supervision , and add the true burden of debt .
today , the brics appear an insuperable barrier to attainment by the rest of a more integrated eu . british hostility to this goal has become increasingly fierce as john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under the power of anti-europeans in his own party . under law , britons can avoid unwelcome developments in the eu because the union is founded on a treaty ; therefore the brics have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power on the grounds that it demands , and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu . margaret thatcher was always an adversary of the ideal of a politically integrated europe .
princeton – everywhere , democracy faces severe challenges . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machinery . europeans trace their malaise to a democratic deficit in the european union . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis ; it is a party that has taken its place . and , in the united kingdom , visions for recovering national sovereignty are fueling a anti-eu campaign .
given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be all too much killing . but there is no superior alternative , either . to avoid exciting markets , it would have to be quite voluntary . persuading bondholders to reach agreement would be challenging – all the more so in view of recent court rulings in the united states that reinforce holdout investors ’ hand . ukraine would be an ideal re-profiling candidate .
the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , a country does not have a functioning government to manage its water resources , either . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been brought down to belgrade – a decision that affects millions of people already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , the palestinian refugee camp on jordan ’s collective borders with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents , each receives barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking , and washing . in times of scarcity , the refugees are probably among the first to feel the effects .
first , jgbs ’s volume has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets . and , reflecting japanese society ’s aging population , the household saving rate alone will decline dramatically , making it more difficult for the private sector to finance annual fiscal deficits . japanese households hold an estimated ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will exceed the jgbs ’ value in about 3-5 years . at that point , government debt will no longer back taxpayers ’ assets . at the same time , japan ’s adverse demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure as pension and health-care costs rise .
much has happened recently in yugoslavia , much of it surprising . after some procrastination and a initially failed experiment , milosevic was arrested without bloodshed , if not without dangers . these are great steps forward - and show that , despite the brainwashing and complicity of a number of serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , a democracy and an open society has a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend might presage a conflict and difficult choices for independence , but the chances are strong that the parties would settle these matters by talking rather than fighting . one key decision facing serbia and its new authorities is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , rises , its president need not hesitate to criticize european politicians , and if needed , publicly , to name – and to shame – them . this does not mean that a ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible . a good central banker needs to say , no to politicians .
but the eu is a political entity making one of its fundamental goals . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then only to the modest level – that it could use to support economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . greece might , in principle , count on its large stock of regional development aid from the european union budget , which was underutilized , owing to the lack of locally co-financing . europe ’s definitive mistake has been a certain level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis are all too present across much of the european union , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding important decisions taken over the last few years , the reality is that we will need to do even more to tackle the challenges facing the eurozone . throughout the eu , reform and consolidation are stalled . joint financial backstops have been put on hold . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by the euro .
yet the financial sector – in earlier eras – has demonstrated that it can operate just as a public good by providing a trustworthy , efficient service . in the future , client-service , transaction-management systems will receive more inputs from customers more often , to ensure that product design shapes interactively . but the rise of interactive social-networking platform has made more bottom-up financial innovation . with millions of bank customers using mobile phones , we can offer instant feedback on which the products and services that they like or dislike . the current financial-sector strategy drives over-competition , by raising market share at the expense of rivals , often shattered trust with customers for short-term gains .
today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only a consequence of the revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread revulsion at the idea that modern nation-states ’ chief function has to slot their peoples in a global marketplace dominated by the imperatives of efficiency and cheapness , heedless damage to non-economic action . this feeling is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . so the unraveling of the multi-national nation-states is a false road on which it is not . the way forward lies in a democratic version of federalism that can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting local and national cultures .
still , it is fair to wonder whether america ’s path to life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunity . pessimists had been saying this a long time ago . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass always lives in half a full and half-hollow . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that america never had it so good . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – particularly many in china – as passing the torch .
in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily make sense of the difference between the two cities . london blew up its dynamism and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence has sucked out the mark of britain by social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . but , even as these uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a sort of zero-sum transfer of emotions that is impossible to ignore . paris , while undeniably rather lovely , was at risk of becoming a new rome , a prisoner of its past glories , at best , to visit , but not the site .
besides investing large amounts of money , they are holding long futures contracts that might make them less likely to react to changes in market fundamentals . these speculative investments can reinforce the trend further , pushing futures markets to the extent that many investors follow suit or taking those who invest sufficiently funds to influence the market . index funds stand as an example of such powerful corporations . they have become key market players , holding about 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . the empirical evidence yields no clear answer about which hypothesis is right .
president george w. bush endangering the united states and global safety while undermining american values . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the us invasion of iraq – is set to be endorsed , and the entire world will have to live up to the consequences . for opposing him , i have demonized the bush campaign . i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are usually non-routine times . president bush ran for a platform promise to “ humble ” foreign policy .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also social institutions that provided shape to their own lives . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the succession wars that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional educational and skills-training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . the results of many projects in these countries are invigorated , with the current focus on training key groups , like entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and the unemployed . the 1999 balkan stability pact and massive international aid helped rebuild local education while advancing innovative vocational education and training systems that should boost long-term employment . since then , the forces of stability and hope have begun to return to a region affected by the destruction of war and widespread despair by social displacement .
whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the significance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . there can be no road from the middle east ’s ’s agony without the participation , commitment , and decisiveness of all parties . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sleeping , not someone pretending to be slumping . ” so two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s peoples , showing that they understand the challenges they face , and another by their new president , who assembled the best team available to pledge an enormously difficult program . in a middle east so fraught with uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that is playing like a regionally important state , not a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions go beyond what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , chances are bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in the free-fall , it might at first glance seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investments on hold . but this would be a devastating mistake of an immediate mistake , just as it is intergenerational , proportions . far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-stretched global economy , ecological investment is precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get order books flowing , and assist in powering economies back to health . in the past , anxiety over the environment has been viewed as a luxury ; today it ’s a necessity – a point grasped by some but by no means necessary economic architects – yet . a big slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion environmental stimulus package includes a surge in renewable energy , “ weatherizing , mileage , and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid . ”
and for that we need a fiscal stimulus – ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally . but the us is n’t happy with the unemployment rate that results from a sudden fiscal crisis . that is why precipitous austerity can not be a morale greece ’s morale builder . for morale , we need a social compact that finds the purpose for all , a way to show oneself as a worker of some kind . we could all be happy working fewer hours if the slump reflected gradual social progress .
that federal law , enacted in june 2016 , has also established a oversight board with the fiscal decision-making authority on the american commonwealth . the restructuring process started on may 3 when the board filed a petition in a federal court . so far , however , many crucial decisions have been made , such as how much overall debt relief will be provided , and how the “ haircut ” will be diffused among holders of various kinds of bonds . at the heart of any effort to resolve a debt crisis must be an understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth will affect how much debt restructuring is needed . these choices will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects , and thus how much it can pay its creditors .
owing to historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s final surviving regional bloc , which still lacks an inter-governmental organization akin to asean . with goodwill on almost every side , genuine advantages can materialize from building this informal grouping , as it is a gateway to southeast and northeast asia ’s vast markets . asean is even more instructive , having centuries of war , culminating in the two twentieth-century world wars , inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration . an economic bonus of such attempts across the region would come from opening up direct flight and maritime transportation across the taiwan strait . ceagpol could even become the building block for an northeast asian version of asean – the “ association of the northeast asian nations . ”
many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article that proposed ways to lower malfeasance among government workers . we suggested , among other things , that civil servants in vulnerable and important posts get higher , rather than the comparable number of workers get there with the private sector . even in europe and the united states , higher-ranking officials typically earn significantly less than individuals with comparable skills and responsibilities . in every country , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honest , but low pay does attract into the government to service some of the rotten apples they are prepared to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , with the surrender of many temptations to use illicit means , so as to raise their incomes to levels seen as more suited to their responsibilities and training .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and dominated headlines . but the current rules-based international system , having gained decades of making it , remains most at risk of syria ’s civil war . now those risks seem to be overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontation at the un security council threatening to subordinate syria in the pecking order of international trouble . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law has its roots in trial , too . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian towns , people around the world mobilized on street vigils and online as part of the “ with syria ” campaign .
this is true for its own financial parameters , too . to be sure , there has been an additional feature that many higher-education institutions have a endowment that they can use to balance inequities . public and private donations are collectively combined in a number of ways . it will take some time to build up such endowments , in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is undoubtedly correct : universities must be set free .
across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all respond to the same question : what used to be the relative costs of this problem in every year since 1900 , all the way through 2013 , with predictions until 2050 . by valuing the magnitude of the problem , it pales in comparison to the overall resources that it provides . yet , rather than picking facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to compare across all areas of human existence to consider whether the world actually does seem to be doing better or worse . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have been trying to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . using the classical economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and the safety of illiteracy to wetlands destruction and heightened hurricane damage from global warming , economists are showing just how large every issue cost .
but there is a policy prescription available to leaders today that could help remove the supply-side constraints : trade . this proposal may puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to the demand side . it allows grocery meal from lands of plenty to lands of little . clearly , investment in food production must rise in the medium and longer term .
trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had expected . with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform , it is a danger to engulf the american economy . with its republican support for fiscal reform , it is at risk of being able to engulf the american economy . it avoids essential reforms , and would leave a mountain of debt ; its consequences , low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality , which are likely to undo decades .
in a robust economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will appear effective . it is common for people to update their views about the world with what they have only last seen ; if what they see are a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . if this cycle is even approximately the right one , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer will rapidly shift to the regulatory confidence that the latest war has now won . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world . yet finance can fail in many ways ; a lehman collapse is just one .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed at their files , no matter which they have been assumed to be a symptom of their own insanity . the rosenhan experiment indicates that questions about trump ’s mental health might never get away with doing so , regardless of which steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter or talks in convoluted and incoherent phrases , at best , he will be perceived as “ “ “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that he took to heart the lesson from the rosenhan experiment , and are now producing diagnoses much more cautiously and rigorously . at best , they would be declared , “ in remission . ”
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic new environment for those fleeing geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges refugees will have to confront while waiting for resettlement , finding access to quality physical and mental-health care tops the list . beyond building bridges and creating the gadgets , engineers can help to improve health-care quality and affordability around the world by developing faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering health services . addressing these contributions is a highly consequential for refugees . it is a challenge that demands urgent attention not just on their doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also on engineers to make indispensable contributions to global public health .
during the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected rising barriers to the use of knowledge , often creating the gap between the social returns to innovation and the private-return to widen . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped the regime unambiguously put the former , while echoing their opposition to provisions that recognized the intellectual-property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . widespread adoption of today ’s tight ip protections is also historically unprecedented . even among the earliest industrializers , ip protection came very late , and was often intentionally eschewed , in order to enable faster industrialization and growth . indeed , the current ip regime is simply not sustainable .
during this era , the dollar strongly appreciated against major currencies , and by 1985 was overvalued by practically every measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed did not intervene at all ( a figure 1b ) . notwithstanding the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb repeatedly attempted to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive intervention in the foreign-exchange market , the fed intervened only once . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so , long as those interests diverge , we should expect little coordination on foreign exchange policy between the two central banks .
in the coming g8 meetings ( the world ’s club of wealthy industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , and the uk – will each participate in both individually and as european union members , whose president also attends to represent the eu as a whole . regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would have supreme symbolic value : it could uncorroborate a common european stance in international relations and international economic policymaking . but could n’t the eu have only a single representative ? a key argument in favor of such a change is that joint eu participation would increase european weight in international relations , in particular , vis-a-vis the us . after all , a key reason for european integration at first took place was precisely to give a stronger voice for europe in the international arena .
the thinking behind a slippery slope is that if you make x an acceptable condition , which is not . therapeutic cloning is conceptually noticeable from reproductive cloning . one can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to the other , even if the two are conceptually different – just because the existence of one creates a socio-climate receptive to another . indeed , two types of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . on the logical slippery slope , jumping to the bottom and embrace morally unacceptable , because there can be no way to differentiate it from acceptable practices .
a central bank attempts to hold on the exchange rate but , eventually , is forced to let the currency float . the result is a currency collapse and a wave of bankruptcies . the us economy confronts its most profound economic crisis in a number of decades . suddenly , its foreign creditors curtail its short-term credit lines . soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals just as vulnerable to the us economy ’s loss of international confidence .
the world might not have supported the u.s. in its unilateral attempt to become the world 's policeman in particular , because they might well create more instability . nevertheless , it is important to realize why the u.s. is doing them and responding to the core problem of today 's international order . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the position of the existing permanent members , then those actions seemed more likely to produce the opposite effect . if russia and others who opposed america 's iraq policy in the un security council really wanted to persuade the u.s. not to attack iraq and for the defense of international law , then it was a naïve policy doomed to failure . similarly , rearguard effort to prove that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that the u.s. and britons were wrong , together with demands for `` proof '' that iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction , are seen as unconstructive , and merely generate mutual irritation .
what is obvious is that public policy can not succeed if it focuses on the consequences rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees a day – the modern day volkerwanderung – enter germany , owing in part to harsh conditions back home , and partly as a result of germany ’s willingness to take on them . as a result , a change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner of the united states and europe . sadly , this seems likely simply to come about with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad than it is to work for his removal . the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating , such numbers quickly will run up against the limits of the physical capacity , the financial resources , and the
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver by the juniper cobra exercise , israel launched a plan to test israel ’s integration into america ’s own ballistic defenses . american sources described the drill as “ the likeliest air-missile defense system that we ’ve ever done anywhere in the world , ” for example . it was a major contribution , they argued , to develop a planned nato missile shield for europe . both sides appear eager to widen the scope of their partnerships , with the goal of achieving high standards of interoperability . israel has also joined nato ’s maritime-control system in the mediterranean , contributing to an operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean .
it is believed that girls have been divided into separate groups , so that any attempt to rescue one group would imperil one another . despite talk of trying a government to negotiate an arrangement with the captors , this option , too , would be fraught with danger . starting a military rescue operation would be a high-risk proposition . even if all girls eventually do get home , nothing would ever be the same again for them or their families . it is difficult to see how the girls could be returned safely .
the country played by the “ rules ” ” ” of financial markets and managed to fine-tune the restructuring rapidly ; but the deal imposed a bad choice and did little to help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in dire need of a new restructuring . distressed debtors need a fresh start , too . the absence of a rule of law for debt-restructuring delayed a fresh start and can lead to chaos . excessive penalties lead to the negative-sum games in which the borrower can not recover , and its creditors do not benefit from the larger repayment capacity that the recovery would entail .
anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . history suggests that , if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for ring the prophylaxis , they would often be administered disemperly , like in sub-optimal doses , in a way that would foster viral resistance and only intensify a pandemic . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . we would expect to see a wide range of illnesses among both employees and patients in hospitals , where victims are treated and soon by someone ( possibly even a non-ill carrier ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . a politically incorrect but morally flawed strategy would be for affluent countries to devote resources to the developing world primarily to oversight .
when workfare replaces welfare , wages will become more flexible enabling the eu ’s labor markets to absorb migrants more effectively . but , even with these measures , the social benefits may come artificially . if migrants acquire welfare benefits alongside wages , more will be lured into coming than is necessary , and marginal migrants would generate welfare losses for a eu equivalent of the benefits . given that migrants typically enter into countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when migrants work and pay their taxes and social-security contributions . the best solution is for western labor-market flexibility by opening a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state .
palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . if so , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly constructed institutions . but , with their government unable to do anything in the process of expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank ’s palestinians are exceptionally frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing resistance to israeli rule . the palestinian authority running in the west bank fears that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn a violent turn .
to avoid such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and shrinking import demand in the west , makes reform much more urgent . li needs to ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts considerable growth potential , does not sink into the lethargy and plunge into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” a developing economy can slow down prematurely when externalities alter the conditions that promote growth . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis low - and middle-income economies .
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not manage to swoop in and implement his agenda . in fact , with his democratic party holding only 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will have to win support from centrist parties and even the conservative opposition . to succeed , moon will need to rethink carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most visible pitfalls . moreover , he will need broader public backing . when seeking public-sector job creation , for example , the key problem that he considers is the prolonged financial burdens that such large-scale hiring could create .
the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding human behavior are embryonic ; but it ’s not hyperbole in calling the problem an epidemic . it ’s hard for non-profits to compete with the manufacturing values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi ’s pepsi commercial or taylor has swift the diet coke commercial . according to child-control centers and prevention , roughly 18 % of children aged 6-11 in the u.s. are not only overweight , but are obese . according to disease control and prevention centers , roughly 18 % of all children aged 6-11 in the us are not only overweight , but obese .
yet , today , america is on the back edge , economically and militarily . this is all the more problematic in an era when the nations of the world and peoples become more intertwined than ever , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and issues flow far more seamlessly across borders . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to resolve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . new powers like china and india have been rising , not lifting each other out , mixing assertiveness with emphasis on its sustained “ developmental ” status . so no one is currently in charge .
without question , the recovery in the united kingdom has begun more gradual than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery has picked up speed after 2012 . last year , its growth rate was the highest in the g7 . according to the imf , only that american economy will grow more quickly in the next four years , with the uk then dragging its lead . and per capita gdp , too , must be broadly preferable to aggregate gdp .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the u.s. have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . in 1802 , america of the third world president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is an issue that consists solely between man & his god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut baptists who feared for their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment of the ’s setting clause and the free-exercise clause built “ a wall of separation between church & state . ” as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
but , by overcoming the disparities and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , the us is reinforcing its support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to shared challenges . we are making some progress on both issues , but much of the work remains . i personally have spoken with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our own actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’s spread . together , bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resource endowments is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and urges relationships that have been built and sustained over decades , as do alliances with new partners .
consider the example of a subsidiary of a us company that earns profits in ireland . that subsidiary pays iranian corporate tax rates at ireland ’s low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , in us financial securities or in operating businesses anywhere in the world except america . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the united states to invest or redistribute to its shareholders , then it has to pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its former pre-tax irish profits , with a credit of 12 % that it already pays . because of this 23 % penalty for us repatriation , us companies generally choose not to repatriate the returns to their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but the shift toward a carbon-neutral economy also provides far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can reinvigorate its own technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost production in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument to mobilize massive capital stores for investment in infrastructure , research , and development , as well as other vital areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” europe can secure greater economic independence from another capacity , and begin establishing the euro as a global currency . the problem does not observe national borders , and it potentially requires collective global action .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . partly in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced ice-free capitalism , which has produced spectacular economic progress . and , like its economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regarding it with growing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence – a young country , and that also aspires to an ancient civilization . fifty years ago , as long as you tried to read about india in the west , you would mostly find books of spirituality .
a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she has not been questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . merkel knows that if an american sacrifices her place at the summit of the international order on domestic political grounds , she will not be replaced by a new leading power , or a new world order emerge . what the us will have is a power vacuum , marked by chaos . and as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend their own interests . rather , she has called for a stronger europe .
the point is that questions like , “ are we generating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become inevitable : the party simply loses control of the country . the upshot is that whenever a problem drags its hands , the turnaround comes too late , and stands to be dramatic . this explains why china can not avoid shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . in fact , democracy does not simply offer a mechanism for helping to prevent their strategic mistakes .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for instance , demonstrated both the will and the capacity to rouse a combat force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but perhaps more important in the long term , ecowas is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of a single currency now a stated purpose . in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects of which the country ’s transportation infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , provides a central theme . then , east african countries are also pushing for integration projects ahead , and they appear to have learned from past failures in the region , a consequence of hastily constructed , inadequate , and over-ambitious power structures . indeed , a number of exciting practical moves in this direction are already underway , though not all pursuing the formerly regional course set by their founders .
with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the stability of the maastricht treaty and the growth pact limit fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is now hitting lows . unless a future government is bold enough to break the abandon pact , its only alternative will be fiscal increases , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high . so where is this demand-fueled growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) appears more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms to accept bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment .
new york – in his impressive apology to iran ’s catholics ( most of this country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi xvi explained why he thought sinful clerics were tempted to engage with children . it was the result of “ new and severe challenges to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . ” fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged its religious values . as we know , the abuse of children by catholic priests has emerged not only in ireland , but in many other countries also , something the pope has preferred not to dwell .
egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the arab peninsula , as president mohamed fouad gadalla recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in poland . historically , it has involved only 70-80 % of 22,000 soldiers that treaty allows in zone a. and the us military has never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered in cairo and to the environs . last august , the israelis permitted an additional seven battalions and 20 think tanks in the zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought in full force , and did not even bother to transport outposts across the suez canal . egypt ’s approach to the sinai troop deployments reflected its traditional neglect of the peninsula .
“ thirty percent of women in many arab countries in the middle east have university degrees , ” zaleski explains this , but they often can not get the jobs commensurate with his training for cultural reasons . with powertofly a technological capacity for transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the highest levels to an american society , even though local laws prohibit her from driving a car . not surprisingly , given such a model , too many men intend to participate just as well . indeed , the founders do not exclude them eventually expands to put a view that need to be addressed . their home page shows a smiling young managing director based in chile and a company pushes to enlist palestinian women even for ideological reasons but because there are so many talented programmers there for hiring .
but , in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a difference . to be sure , no one elected monti , and his position is fragile and already in question , but a positive near-consensus rule that allowed him to launch long-overdue structural reforms . so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe that he will persuade pessimistic analysts and worried investors alike that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu completely . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship comes back to europe , despite in homeopathic doses . it is far too soon to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as president .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but america did not provide it – a point made recently by jeb bush , a leading contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . many of these decisions reversed badly , largely because the information-technology sector ( the computers and how it is used ) eliminated many middle class jobs . increasing the globalization of trade also has not helped in this respect . too often , children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve help . moreover , just as the till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of joblessness for their parents have a severe and persistent negative impact on their children .
but governments need to understand better the barriers to investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and sub-standard technologies . and they must commit rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that fosters productivity growth . it is here , at the level of execution , that governments often perform poorly . too often , they spend their money to foster private-sector projects that fail to yield positive returns to the broader economy . indeed , in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local services and transportation – the two large sectors – should be considered as well .
here is where the link between food and climate change comes in : as people gather for themselves from poverty – as many are demanding more meat and dairy . cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane , a number of young people . and clearing land for the pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate . this trend holds grave implications for agriculture for the ecological footprint of public health . eating more food , animals consume more food than they produce .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , a presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a much more expansionary mandate . the leaders of these organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for example , they must balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to education , or address corruption . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lift populations out of poverty and foster sustainable development . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central-bank governor , and now foreign minister , i worked for many years with international organizations to govern these competing priorities , as i oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s ’s established left is facing the existential threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . a number of factors underlie a left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most significant reasons for this is as grim as it is straightforward : european voters are increasingly opposed to immigration and have little confidence in the left for limiting it . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between the center-right and center-left parties , the anti-eu collapse could have far-reaching consequences , beyond particular party interests .
it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower costs involved in extracting us shale gas . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s main strategic rival , china , which has become increasingly dependent on middle eastern energy supplies . as a result , america is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 , becoming an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario would grant the u.s. three colossal advantages . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to mounting unrest in the arab world .
the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a chasm . traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through the filters of media and pollsters . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide over the distribution of income and other indicators among some of the affluent cities that benefit from globalization and the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration has a national leader enact tax cuts on the basis of where all life is in life . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now reallocated for the poorest parts of the country .
let ’s consider the experience of visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that time , which means , in effect , an extra hour spent at notre dame , or , in recalling one ’s visit , it is just as good for expanding someone ’s life by a hour . so , with so many lives that is so good for the us , how many lives – if any – should be somewhat expensive . suppose that we are saving the lives of people living 60 more years of life ; an estimated 9,000 years of annual benefit is equivalent to a savings of 150 lives every year . that is a substantial number of lives , but one must now ask , “ how many € 1 billion could have saved . ” whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it would be clear that the us could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship by helping people living in extreme poverty in low-income countries than the us could through expenditures in france .
in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 to achieve the goals set by the 2015 paris climate accord as battering ram against a schwarze null . on september 20 , the german government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of emissions-reduction spending . in the us , such a package would name a green new deal . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals may not mean larger budget deficits . spending on priorities such as energy and the environment can be helpful .
any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be unequivocal : i am not questioning the standard versions of the gains-from-trading theory of commerce , but the extravagant , ill-founded claims made about the consequences of openness . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of a true article , because it unleashes expectations unlikely to meet . in the real world , opening is not a straightforward matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . it requires a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . while many of the institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may not be focused on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and have lost attention by now .
this means that they must be led by well regulated , impartial professionals . but , as the examples cited above expose , the seas are not delivering on their intended goal reliably . that is because it stands , technical specialists typically conduct seas at the behest of project developers – an practices that , as activists have repeatedly noted , are grossly unethical . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on a mere superficial appraisal of the ecological and market-based value of affected ecosystems , it should be no surprise that damaging projects are often sanctioned , despite failing to comply with broadly agreed green development guidelines . to play an efficient role in protecting the planet and its people , seas must be a rigorous , credible , and transparent process .
in the wake of the crisis , regulators focused largely on the dismantling of trading barriers and generally favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering more efficient , cheaper trading of a broader set of financial claims . that is no longer the case , either . but there are signs that these assumptions are now being made to dispute . on the contrary , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . might such ease and efficiency not fuel market instability , and serve the interests of intermediaries rather than their customers ?
following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate it . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for the violence might be prosecuted . the central government , however , did little to halt the intimidation of the linyi villagers . central authorities seemed to feel an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control effort . and xinhua has wasted absolutely no time in asserting that abuses were restricted to a handful of towns .
the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , owing to the failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with a severe dollar shortage , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move toward tapering its large-scale asset purchases ( so-called “ quantitative easing ” ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they are also underestimating asian economies , at least in part , the need for stronger financing safety nets . tighter american monetary policies might intensify global credit shortages , thereby increasing pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems .
this partly explains enduring popular loyalty to rulers such as joseph stalin . for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies the powers that control everything that matters in life ; it supports it , regardless of the policies his or her implements because there can not be done otherwise . but now delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become the reformer this time around . the question today is not one of the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . with the presidential term now stretching back to six years , one can expect an encore lasting degree to at least 12 years – longer than putin ’s initial performance .
other major shortcoming was that viktor yushchenko , the leader of the orange revolution , had shown himself to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world over several months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to the russians not to elect the accidental president with excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange administration ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) were defectors in the old regime . he then began vetoing virtually all cabinet decisions , triggering a political stalemate , and , on the end of his presidency , tacitly coupled with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to his credit , voted against the constitution ) . the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises when the process is exceedingly fast .
indeed , indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vitally important to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands – and not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from the production and sale of such goods and services , but rather in the disinterested hands of the state , the father , and the mother to every indians . given this thought , performance was not the appropriate criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . its “ permit-license-case quota ” culture allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public service as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . inefficiencies masked generous subsidies from the national treasury and a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , commercial unions , and internet monopolies – kept it beyond political critiques .
with the limits of the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly evident , many media leaders – close to one-third , according to the reuters institute , they believe – will play a central role in supporting the media . but to persuade foundations and philanthropists to unlock their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , rather than the algorithms or ai-enabled software . technology alone can not spur more democracy , offer help to answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by boosting accountability . for organizations without the clout at their disposal and digital revenues through time , a people-oriented approach may also need to secure investment . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is as noble a cause as , say , cancer research .
so it is not surprising that american president donald trump ’s completely reckless former advisor , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to encourage the m5s and league to form the coalition he called the “ ultimate dream, ” ” because it would break up the eu . in order to forge such a coalition , m5s would thus have to adopt a responsible and obviously well-defined economic program , with the democrats forced to embrace them as their junior partner in an untested insurgent force . a pro-eu italy governed by a motley democrat coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear eu foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis the american , russia , and china ; and implement a green , innovation-based growth strategy . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s politics could tip the balance . a possible key to mutual confidence would be for israeli democrats to hold together the ministry of finance , while m5s appoints its prime minister .
the us supreme court has declared that the death penalty should be applied only in the “ rarest ” cases . and , indeed , the last three us executions in ukraine stemmed from terrorist offenses that threatened or took large numbers of lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains , to say the least , subjective . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on a number of variables , beginning with the judicial and social biases . my statements were also motivated by problems of how capital punishment is imposed in india .
the long-run effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound savings . during the latest tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , households ’ real interest income grew by 29 % . and average hourly wages for every employees on privately-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . though this time , the gains probably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and size of the fed ’s tightening , interest that pay on savings , will move household income along the right direction : up . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families hold its hard-won savings in the bank will finally start realizing some of the return on their deposits .
beijing – most western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as a pure power play , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his standing . xi knows that , if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , it will have to manage its deftly significant social and economic transformation while – even more important – improving state governance . and , to secure china ’s long-term survival at the center of the one-party system , he must reform the state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is , for xi , a precondition for advancing economic reform . but accumulating political capital in this case is a means . for xi , that end is a smooth transition into the modernity that cements the cpc its long-term authority and ensures his own legacy as modern china ’s most significant leader .
after all , today ’s appalling conditions are the result of staggering corruption and waste during the past 40 years . at best , our design could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , thereby transforming economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . another issue is how much revenue should be channeled , and how remittances can be effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward as nigeria ’s . but , even with all the difficulties of corruption and inefficiency that no doubt plague its actual performance , our proposal is superior to that of the status quo . the time for action now is the time to act .
recent turmoil in asian markets is raising difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and inadequate financial information that can not go unnoticed . ever , financial markets are best understood as a historical process , with history never to repeats itself exactly . the question poses alone : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? that can not be answered in the abstract , for every situation is different . market fragility in financial markets can provoke severe economic and social dislocations .
indeed , the experience with sars in toronto , in which cases have escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control over the greater and more geographically dispersed demonstration in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , these epidemics might have been completely eliminated in the coming months . screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented major epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that certain transmission will persist or that reintroduced the virus on the basis of human populations from animals . health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilantism and prepare the possibility of renewed control efforts if sars resurges .
nor have the u.s. and britain used their power in iraq to promote transparency for the national oil sector . it is hard to see how a democracy can take root if the country ’s single most important income source remains as veiled under saddam . the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside its premier international forum on addressing transparency in resource revenues , while needlessly redefining the wheel in the process . let us hope that the new iraqi government will do a better job . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most potent vehicles available for achieving the global standard of disclosure and accountability .
there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined . joyce karam , the washington bureau of pan-arab joint newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslims kill muslim or arab slaughter ” seems more acceptable than israel killing arabs . stories of israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict , with its help . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are victims faceless ; the jihad of an incomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . this is not to say that israel should be consoled by macabre arithmetic of bloodshed .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability for a number of developing countries . yet whether fueled by a narrow ideology or a reaction of special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization as part of its bilateral trade deals . the second topic concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these provisions have constrained countries from making drug imitations , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists worldwide have demanded that something be done .
now that the cap is entering into force , the us will soon benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , permanent global health dividend . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . in the meantime , governments will be collaborating on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impacts of the global maritime-trading system . such efforts are crucial to reaching the goals outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . we can expect to see dataset in the coming years indicating a lower cost of health-care costs and improved learning outcomes from around the world .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its capacity to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives worldwide might therefore care about the lesson of the learning four tricks that american politicians commonly use when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously cutting budget deficits . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” the “ rosy scenario , ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario . these are tough promises to keep , for the simple reason that the budget deficit equates government spending minus tax revenue . but , more than three decades have been refined .
so which is it this : are the banks still riskier ? or has post-crisis regulatory reform already been doing its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . second , and most important , being “ too big to fail ” helps big banks to grow even larger , because their creditors and their trading partners favor working with banks that have an implicit government guarantee .
while it can not predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major policy declaration that offers further support for the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries ask for it . participants in the chicago area will have major differences over these issues , and the results might not be a ideal outcome . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and it will necessarily come in small steps . an alliance ’s core goal must be to ensure steps forward .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is often described in the international press as a “ center-right . ” but that label is not exactly correct , either . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” european sense . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party that privatized state companies in the 1990s only to re-nationalize it later . moreover , the center-right ” often means “ conservative , ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo .
women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run their lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancers , with an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer reaching roughly 55 % of women with a brca1 mutations , and roughly 25 % for women with brca2 mutations . elevated breast cancer risk is also known to be linked to a number of inherited syndromes in genomic , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , a condition further associated with childhood onset of multiple malignancies including the soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of securing breast cancer , these however , a genetic predispositions remain elusive . we have also learned that the only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that cluster in families come from the brca1 or brca2 germline version – the genetic alterations present from birth in each body cell and may be transmitted to the offspring . most recently , huge studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast-cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified so-called modifier snp that can decrease or enhance individual lifetime risk .
xi ’s administration is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-oriented economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda means that china ’s attempt to take the lead on global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stemmed from china ’s own incomplete transition on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , the united states immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . in seeking to lead on the next stage of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and lower food instability and a poor nutritional source caused by higher rates of temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica devotes significant resources to host issues like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our single most significant asset . our commitment to tackling climate change relies on our understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on our understanding of the tremendous health and costs that emerge from inaction . as a result , we are one of the few countries prepared to move beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement .
but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : america ’s proposed $ 6.5 billion sale by the united states to taiwan of its 30 apache assault helicopters and the 330 patriot cruise missiles . china-us antidumping talks on defense cooperation had earlier stalled , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch sent to the obama administration by china ’s own government . already , there is genuine hope that the upcoming talks along these lines may succeed . to promote china , the country ’s traditional civilization with a growing sense of spiritual ties .
and ignatieff has done some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” which the university argued was intended to force it out of the country . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , the ceu president and rector michael ignatieff might say , “ i have in support in washington . ” i have support in berlin , budapest , [ … ] i came to support in munich . now is the time to get some support in brussels .
most chinese doctors and patients , for example , have long viewed acupuncture as an effective cure for stroke , using it to improve motor , speak , and other functions that have been destroyed . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat stroke effects , much as 63 % of physicians surveyed believe that it is effective . some 36 % of chinese doctors believe that acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains precarious , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so new . more recently , though , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects on such therapy have begun . almost all trials on acupuncture as a treatment for a stroke conducted within china have had a positive .
likewise , economists had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , the artifact of the 1960-70s , when organized labor was far stronger . in fact , the declining powerhouse of labor might explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , advanced economies ’ central bankers – particularly the eurozone – continued to undershoot their inflation targets . clearly , the notion that employees would always resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ ’ wages ) no longer applies . but , even more important , this could be the reason why measured productivity remains consistently weak .
so it is vital to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which demands educational opportunities for everyone . but neither do any trade-off between inequality nor growth need to be papered over . a country ’s most valuable resource , indeed , is its people ; it ’s the only way to do that . governments can enhance growth by boosting inclusiveness . a modern economy also requires risk-taking .
consent should not be snatched , like a train ticket held from the conductor . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ internationally-established possession ” as though something was done to the patient , like drawing blood or administering an injection : “ dr. smith , please go on consent to mr jones . ” compounding the problem , consent should be viewed more than hours before a crucial operation , and the months following the surgeon ’s latest consultation with them . this can lead patients to consent to procedures in which they can not comprehend – or want – – – – – – – – – or want . eu consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession that he , or may choose to relinquish , when presented with a sufficiently compelling case .
so far , this abundance of choices has discouraged companies from spending sources on training employees , who might , after all , decide soon to join a competitor . but as talent shortages loom , the need to retain staff might tip the balance back toward greater investment in professional development . for employers , delivering learning opportunities will become a daunting destination for talent . those with sought-after talents possess more bargaining power are better able to manage their careers and to command higher pay . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable income .
such a digital ecosystem strengthens the checks and balances , reduces the possibility of failure , and mitigating the incursion effects . in such a futures scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about the network of computers fighting each other , while the people stand by . it would portray the wider notion of the “ singularity , ” ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial actually surpasses a human . fortunately , in this scenario , life is still a long way from imitation of art . similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , capture power in numbers , and can rapidly respond to a broad range of attacks .
it is precisely for this reason that we must ensure that dfft is turned into public goods for scholars worldwide . indeed , on april 30 the world witnessed its majesty ’s abdication by the emperor emeritus akihito , its first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from members of the “ science ence20 , ” created by the g20 national science academies . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an improved data-storage and management system ” that ensures open access by researchers globally , ” and “ information-sharing ” received through research activities undertaken through extensive and multinational collaborative efforts , expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . the g20 summit in osaka is approaching the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in japan .
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are enhancing their brand identities and careless talent , investments , and businesses from around the world . to be sure , today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s cities face a number of challenges . by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are enhancing their brand identities and careless talent , investments , and businesses from around the world . and city services are often more visible to citigroup than federal support ; consider , for example , who responds during a network of traffic accidents or a natural disaster . cities power the growth through innovation , commerce , and exchange is on the rise . the american-canadian author and city activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity .
two days after google made its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas lane friedman , the world ’s author is flat , echoing many of trump ’s assaults on china ’s unfair trading practices . technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and exchange , and corporations ’ nationality – even prominent multinational corporations – would become just as important as their business model . if this is where the previous ideological high cleric of globalization now stands , china is confronted against not only trump ’s america but liberal america , too . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought entirely by trump and his unilateralist agenda . the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade constraints would undermine global prosperity ; it is that these developments have also raised the risk of a major political confrontation .
on the international stage , large states attempt to force international rules and often to construct their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape an even larger world : think about what some french thinkers have called harnessing globalization ” . small states ’ nervousness , and fear , began to rise roughly in 2000 . instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to alter a rules – in their own advantage . new political realities were highlighted by the war in iraq , china ’s quest for energy resources in developing countries , and russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s assertiveness in foreign and domestic policies . in a small-nation setting , imposing a dense web of controls is likely to result in a loss of mobile production factors , while in a great state making it harder for labor or capital to flee .
a law restricting transportation strikes took effect on june 1 , with sarkozy planning to tear down a 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . instead of repealing the law , overtime work is to become straightforward and relatively inexpensive . democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy , and it is the great recession that has ended . it also prepares to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 . this , in turn , opens the way for more and deeper reform efforts .
with the united kingdom ’s more extreme free-market view gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it did in the u.s. ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing eurozone financial reforms is actually harder . after all , governments regard home banks as important purchasers of us sovereign debt . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( like japan ) have consistently resisted rising capital requirements , despite the widespread consensus that doing so is an indispensable component of effective re-regulation . the banks argue that more effective regulation would stifle credit , and slow the pace of economic recovery . their opposition has undermined the international effort to build a more resilient system – and it will likely hamper efforts to place the european economy on sounder terms .
every time trump ’s opponents march toward women , muslims , or sexual minorities fortify trump ’s core support base . in order to consolidate support , thatcher would be heading a head-to-head with carefully selected enemies , from british miners to argentina ’s then-president , general leondo galtieri , to the national bureaucrats in brussels . this reflects a key conflict between johnson and trumpism : the latter aim to sweep the neoliberal consensus on unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and the immigration that comprised the old . but , though ideas vary , the tactics are the same . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals in the fight for the causes that alienated mainstream america .
the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to a breaking point . taiwan ’s young democracy must now deal with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election thrust upon it . whereas canvassing voting in his hometown of south taiwan on the eve of elections , president chen and vice president annette lu was both being wounded by the assassin ’s bullet . sympathetic that secured , president his razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the votes – over lien chan , the kuomintang party candidate and the peoples ’ party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . young democracies may be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as political opponents .
in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico . but rising russian standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his longstanding legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be made decreed from the top-down . in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as twofer .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva was on his watch : a man of the left that moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of the economic crisis . on the assumption that power , kim and lula was able to adjust , politically and psychologically , to the new realities confronting them , starting much-needed reforms . both immediately confronted with the international financial constraints that opposition policymakers could afford to ignore . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neoliberal ” ) , and they might not have been possible under the right-wing politicians .
but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , as it will test his entire national appeal . though the us supreme court has cleansed him of all personal misdeeds , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . annual state economic growth averaged more than 10 % between 2006 and 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew ’s world-class prize . that did not prevent modi from taking political risks , starting with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but history haunts modi ’s ’s ’s ’s campaign , namely the deaths of over 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 .
on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist pointed out to me that xi ’s campaign costs china 1 % of gdp annually . a chinese businessman told me that true growth is less than half that of the official figure ; in fact , it is less than half that of the former . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can counter that resistance ; the eu is merely discouraging initiative . finally , there is china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s soft-power deficit . perhaps this can be countered by the private sector ’s dynamism ; but , even there , fear of losing control increases the party ’s role .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have a shared interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . turkey ’s real strengths lie in its thriving economy , a secular , democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . how turkey has navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the wider transformation of its neighborhood . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo unraveled , and turkey must reevaluate and recalibrate its regional policies . but , as turkey builds closer ties with the us and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with a more assertive russia , eager to demonstrate itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean , as well as maintaining its bases in syria .
with almost two million patients now out of antiretroviral therapies , annual aids-related deaths have fallen by about 100,000 since 2005 . the government has aligned its early antiretroviral therapy programs for incumbent sufferers , initiated in 2008 by early monitoring programs for pregnant women . these remedies have cut rates for new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , particularly among teenage 15-49 , continues to climb ) . meanwhile , contagion among newborn babies , once running at about 70,000 a year , cut to some 63 % , and life for millions of aids sufferers were prolonged . another important factor has been better integration of tb blueprints .
astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down new bone , by producing a substance that inhibits cells that break the bone and promote those that produce the bone and cartilage . these kinds of mammals spend up to seven months of hibernating ’s year hibernating , during which time they are basically immobile . but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is conserved to ensure that current and future generations of researchers can make novel discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , threatened by wildlife extinction . a human would lose the third or more bone mass , when immobile this time .
but they need stronger support – not only in afghanistan or in terms of weapons and training – from west special forces . this is about a global order in a stable , prosperous world . there is also a powerful argument , as well as for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has been under attack , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . yet this does not just europe ’s fight or that of the united nations . the entire alliance should commit itself to defeat terrorism as a result of these efforts .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly include existential questions about the eurozone ’s survival and the european project . this means that the candidates in next year ’s snap general election are not only unlikely to be narrowly focused on domestic issues . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe currently seems to be grappling with the question of how much europe it wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how great social solidarity is . this means that the candidates currently at the center of domestic political debates are probably not just putting their minds to domestic issues . while there will be some , for the first time , broad debate about europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas like migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia .
• while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , a weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not provide law and order , can not enforce contracts , and can not ensure a secure , sound banking system . market failures are a fact of life , but so are governments failing . neo-liberal ideologies presuppose perfect markets , perfect information , and host others that even the best-performing market economies could not satisfy . it was , after all , too little regulation – the capital and financial-market liberalization connecting east asia with the imf and america ’s treasuries – that led to the financial crisis in 1997 . the question , they should have been nothing about how to deregulate rapid growth , but about how to develop the right regulatory framework .
with importers favoring a strong exchange rate ; exporters tend to prefer a weak one . in order to make any sense at all , monetary policy has to have different effects on various groups at different times . a interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas a rate cut is a boon to borrowers . in any case , they certainly do ; but so does the case ? any and every monetary-policy measure does redistribute wealth .
even with real wages rising in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . even with real wages rising in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . in any case , the chinese wage story remains far more complicated than it might appear . so the conclusion seems that rising wage growth will not jeopardize china ’s competitiveness over the next ten or even 20 years . in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might appear .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the current exchange rate , we need to look at the us trade balance . there is a clear sign that germany ’s net exports would remain high , even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level . because germany ’s exports are attractive to us foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 made it the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany , the largest net exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s exports exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion in the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp .
in the weeks leading up to the election , the public appeared to have grown weary of a prime minister who got himself into office long enough to be corrupted by arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . these structural features were bolstered by developments throughout the region , which strengthened the feeling among israeli voters that they were at risk of multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its cruise missiles ; the rise of isis amid state failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo rather than advocate accommodations involving territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s landslide victory was unambiguously an impressive personal comeback . he conducted a campaign that relied on his newfound eloquence and new charisma , along with scare tactics .
across this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best blueprints can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has shown . four billion barrels of oil have been discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production has started on track in 2010 . the coming year , a management of petroleum revenues divided the wealth between consumption , investment , and offshore saving , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . investment should therefore be gradual , at a time when the country can temporarily storing some of its oil wealth abroad . but , with the recent presidential election coming year , the situation has begun to deteriorate .
cambridge – in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency in financial markets . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and u.s. enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have grown in significance , and secret bank accounts have thrived . but there are some large differences between now and now . most developing countries around the world accumulated massive foreign currency reserves .
european policymakers have the tools and intelligence community to maintain influence in ukraine . if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them . in any case , their hardships suffered by eu citizens might reemerge if the eurozone followed draghi ’s own definitive prescription there , offering more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for reform and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating its impact on those like-minded europeans that stand to suffer the most . by selectively addressing the gravest risks , draghi has been able to minimize them .
to see a working-class white woman pick up the heartbeat of an american president resonates powerfully with them . think of the appeal of films like thelma and louise , or of a working girl , in which the lead character is “ gutsy , ” exploited secretary , trampled by a snooty , female ivy league boss , nonetheless managing to end her dream on work , dreaming guy , and a corner office . so , when sarah palin escorts into the media limelight , she becomes a symbolic revenge fantasy for many of these silenced , exhausted factory workers , and her secretaries . while reports are surfacing that palin has told an audience of african americans that she did n’t have to hire black people , working-class white women often comprehend her own experience with racial hostility . they perceive an underclass that they believe receives benefits denied to them and a thriving developing economy that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs .
china has already delivered on this front by abandoning the growth model that has successfully driven the country ’s economic development for more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift away from a export-oriented model that focuses mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . that change will give china a much better chance to avoid the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that the early-stage takeoff growth recipe is sufficient for developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i highlight in my new book , the codependency of china and america ties them together inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the world economic symposium ( ges ) to attempt to devise tangible solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . while such solutions have some merit , they are inadequate to address effectively the complex and far-reaching gaps that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning them and undermining – the financial stability worldwide . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost every level , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives for institutions . at the end of last year , the central-banking summit dialogues over the financial stability pact , which pitted inflation-targeting produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a global monetary authority to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary goal .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by leveraging trade and investment barriers , globalization has created an array of winner-take-all settings in which the most technologically sophisticated actors gain market share through economies of scale . specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and “ creative ” industries win large , with a global tech stock boom obscuring its gains . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail institutions , while hampering smaller actors ’ ability to compete . the global financial system reinforces this type of concentration , with negative real interest rates encouraging financial repression on household savings .
but prevention also must address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors are allowed to move into and out of capital markets far exceeds their individual countries ’ capacity — and the international community — to counter such flows . sometimes those outflows may come through no fault of the country in question , but owing to the financial market contagion that arises from disturbances elsewhere . many countries have no foreign currency reserves sufficient to comply with sudden and large capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . this phenomenon was all too apparent during the asian crises and following the russian debt default in august 1998 .
the only question now in doubt , then , is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet , ” not before the next election , “ or just plain ‘ no ’ . ” most commentators have tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is the prime minister . it is a decision that has been made virtually independently of prime minister tony blair , and even against his wishes . like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they forget nothing and learned nothing . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because he wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe . ”
but what can stop the demons that have already been unleashed ? and , though stopped , can the damage they have already wrought be reversed ? the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s current problems worsen and immense opportunities are missed . trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including commitments to truth and evidence , has fed an unconstrained “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion , ” and play on such repressed emotions as racism and classroom envy . there has been some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn the white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite behind the alt-” rally in august ended the assassination of a counter-protester .
finally , trump has just proposed tax deductions for the average level of childcare expenses . that might seem widely beneficial , but it would help only those in high enough tax-brackets to itemize deductions , mostly on households with annual incomes over $ 75,000 ( median american household incomes in 2015 range ) . what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is no indication how to finance any of his tax policies , with every indication that they will expand the us budget deficit sharply . a question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all the other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax records .
since its inception in 2008 , the rct has generated tens of thousands of jobs , and it is now active in 24 countries . entrepreneurs backed by the anzisha prize , for example , have created more than 300 jobs and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital . and in south africa , marshall parker , a founder of the community ’s social innovation academy and the incubator ceres , has created a virtual currency , called zlato , for encouraging active participation in workshops of training . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at centers , earn zlato ’s credit that can be exchanged for food , health-care and basic necessities . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are now active in 24 countries .
but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , put the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and possibly dissolution . avoiding this scenario means sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but this would upset hardline brexiteers and might split the conservative party , brexit risk theresa may has been reluctant to take . may is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending brexit altogether . british leaders need only to acknowledge that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold a national debate to rank voters ’ preferences .
the importance of diaspora financing , from the remittances of working-class indians , who transformed kerala ’s rural countryside into the trillions poured into high-tech firms in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors , simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . encouraging them to do more , and giving them the reasons for doing more , is certainly a worthwhile task for india ’s government – and the overt objective of the annual conclave . the country also received an estimated $ 70 billion in remittances last year to remittances – more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment . there is no doubt a utilitarian aspect of the pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminars are running through state governments in order to attract the expatriate investment . but the us should n’t get away with it : offshore indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than the overseas chinese do in china .
apple ’s brand , for example , has lately been rocked by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , workers , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed on regular reviews by an independent observer . companies that score poorly risk losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory or regulatory activism . and companies that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and a loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulty in recruiting talent , the lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related costs . nowadays , mobile phone apps that evaluate and grade large multinational corporations led-run their customers , investors , and public bureaucracies .
at the same time , they tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage a high saving rate . this has kept the birth rate from rebounding in the wake of the 1966-76 cultural revolution . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent major 2004 paper ( co-authored with shi cao cao ) , argued that this demographic shift explains much of the increase in the saving rate , because chinese substituted capital-to-child investment investment . this prevented his birth rate from rebounding in the wake of 1966-76 ’s cultural revolution . but income growth and demography can not explain everything .
invoking subsequently about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-rate temperament . ” while the concept is modern , the idea is not new . in the 1930s , former supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusty old veteran of the american civil war , was taken to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but one not a distinguished student . more than once , practical people have long understood its importance in leadership . most historians would agree that franklin roosevelt ’s success as the leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq .
ever since sudan won its independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by an almost constant north-south cultural and religious divide . matters have subsequently been complicated by a separate conflict – this time between muslims – over resources in the west darfur region . the artificial measure of the mainly arab spring , the muslims north of sudan , and the african south , where christianity and the traditional animist faith are predominant , has produced a abject failure . if the non-muslim south regained at independence a high degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , the country may have remained at a standstill in peace . a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will allow voters to choose whether to join the north or the south .
when i was administrator of the undp , i was forced to come to terms with the steady “ requests ” from government representatives . usually , they were formulated in the acceptable way , asking me to “ look into ” a specific issue . but i also received the requests – frequently from the global superpowers – in ways that were in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter , and that i must spend a lot of time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . but my overall experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that stick to article 100 . being responsive to member states ’ ’ ’ concerns and priorities was the right and normal ; taking orders from them was not .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost about $ 90 trillion over the past decade , with three-quarters attributable to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric – including blackrock – lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , on the grounds that the company had misjudged the pace of the shift to green-energy stocks and the collapse of demand for gas turbines and the thermal power station . more broadly , the investor agenda for the low carbon world has attracted some 477 signatories , representing some $ 34 trillion in upkeep assets . meanwhile , the ceo of energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already taken a financial hit . calling on these investors to ask governments not only to limit rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s harder objective of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
conflict with the united states is unlikely for the moment . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the u.s. . yet trouble over america 's allies , particularly japan , might draw the u.s. engagement that it prefers to avoid . in short , china is on the precipice of huge , needed , and dangerous transformations that promise to change the country for a better or to make everything , including regional stability , far worse . the entire world has a huge stake in what happens next .
new york – at the end of november , the lower house of parliament , headed by the majority african national people ’s congress ( anc ) party , overwhelmingly ratified a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield the country ’s ’s ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and in a number of cases , private business information is just the same . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the bill to the apartheid legislation . south africa adopted the freedom of information law in 2000 , just five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , the right to information in south africa is in jeopardy .
washington , dc – the chinese economy ’s slowdown has been slower in recent years , but it remains a potent performer , contributing about one-third of total economic growth worldwide . at the same time , it has become more sustainable , in line with its growth model ’s shift away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . it has also become more sustainable , in line with its growth model ’s shift away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china loudly called for new structural-reform efforts to stimulate growth in both advanced and emerging-market economies . but , by and large , china faces significant risks at home .
hong kong – at the start of this century , with china launching its “ go out ” policy – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support its overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected that the country would quickly emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . even so , that is precisely what has happened , if at all . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to becoming among the top investors and trading partners for most of the region ’s countries , as well as its most senior lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its political influence in the region and beyond . the question is whether this is good for latin america .
in remarks following the press conference , he praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and a “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” by contrast , the two men ( the most likely in the world ) deserve one another . both are consummate propagandists and performers . and both are ready – even keen – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . there is little question , however , about which the american candidate putin would like to see in the white house .
the first has been to adopt the center right ’s agenda , and to pursue labor-market , tax , and investment policies that will “ adapt ” france toward “ capitalist ” globalization . in practical terms , this would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . the other avenue would require macron to build on the pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route he originally selected quickly , quickly becoming the business-oriented international press darling . as dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a bigger state , in order to compensate for those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth .
“ why are we looking for the us federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ” mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made that case . in a benign scenario , those people enter the club together in different states on the basis of their preferences for a big or tiny state of government , public or private provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism . in a vindictive scenario , on the other hand , trump and the us congress may have sought to limit the rights of progressive states . “ if you live in a state wishing to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” and if you like n’t , “ then you can figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or change “ state legislatures and laws , ” in mulvaney .
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s is met with nuclear energy , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a more competitive footing in regional markets . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry through no-renewal of current licenses and bans on newer plants . blueprints remains formulated but brought together the two countries ’ pledges mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . for years , over-reliance on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in energy-generation clean technologies , despite the fact that the two countries are innovators in green industries like energy-storage and smart grids .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders have agreed , in principle , to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is inevitable because china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates constraints on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender controls on its money-supply and interest rates to the u.s. . still , china ’s rulers are right to postpone a decision on the table . because the us dollar remains the dominant global reserve currency , with the fed controlling the supply of u.s. dollars because long as china sticks to the fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money-supply . the chinese can delay but not hide from a fundamental economic rule : if the exchange rate between the two countries ’ currencies is fixed and capital flows between them are unconstrained , the economically dominant us exercises control of one another ’s monetary policies .
in fact , even that level might still not be low enough . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scholars believe that warming above a 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation will make it exceptionally expensive , particularly for developing nations and island states . so we are in a race to the future . the good news is that , if we somehow stop all of our emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only within a decade or so before stabilizing . can we turn the tap to zero-emission today before the bathwater hits a level that take us well beyond the 2ºc threshold put in paris ?
mind you , citizens of the west are blessed with a life of peace : changing circumstances and priorities could be handled through eu democratic processes , rather than foreign and civil wars . but what , exactly , is the just-concluded democratic process of making irreversible , self-defining decisions ? i am afraid that this will not be a pretty picture . indeed , nobody has a picture of the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or for the effect on domestic political stability . is it really enough that the us could take 52 % to vote for a breakup on a rainy day ?
defense spending amounts to 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom achieve 3 % . but confining discussion of a defense commitment to the percentage of the gdp that is spent on the army is insufficient , because there are economies of scale on defense spending . so one would have expected that smaller countries would spend proportionally more on defense than the larger ones . instead , today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined ; defense spending in the us probably rises even more in the years ahead . security versus global influence is not the only advantages that come through military spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly later this month , a widespread sense of foreboding has emerged among world leaders . even before the summit started , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south african koreans , and japan surveyed in earnest about the need for new alliances to salvage the multilateral system . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back in the immediate postwar era , and felt as though he was “ present at the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . ” but at the raqqa later that year , many of the attendees felt as though they were present at the destruction of that world . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns of what us president donald trump might have advocated or a tweet .
as the events over the last two weeks in egypt have starkly demonstrated , the arab awakening is not yet in its early act in a number of countries . in the medium term , the world is grappling with the tensions and potential crises that american leadership is probably indispensable . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel might re-flare up anytime soon . indeed , it is fragile by democracy , at best , throughout north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia has just begun to experience a ripple of the kind of tidal wave sweeping across the region . even at a time when united states is not on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to creating a united opposition , working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker a deal .
in today ’s germany , because no one with a decisive power in business , finance , or the government has experienced war , the european project is no longer viewed as a kind of conditioning europe on its collective future . these new leaders envision that europe alone as the trading regime . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the autumn of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would be no common european plan to confront the greek crisis , and no call for public funds . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not just in eastern europe .
such shortcomings are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection process , it is that what happens there in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now entered into the hands of countries like russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sad to say , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal business practices , rather than enhancing trade or prosperity . when the treaty ’s underlying purposes are not trade or freedom ; it is not . when is the free-trade agreement bad ?
the ascent of the nahda ( renaissance ) , a leading islamist party , appears less a reflection of latent ideological support among its newly liberated members than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable capacity to fill its post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , nahda has reopened more than 200 offices . scores of volunteers are stationed in electoral campaigning at the grassroots , door-to-door level . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the tunis symbolize its position as the country ’s most potent political operation by far . while opponents ominously recall the participation of party cadres at their deadly tourist destination in 1991 , nahda has gone out of his lengths to appease his critics .
consider first the argument that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting the two export-driven us growth strategies and the desire to avoid a repeat of the catastrophic speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the apparent candidate for this reserve-fund was the us treasury bills . the trouble is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer mainly “ foreign-exchange reserves ” ” in the traditional sense . in earlier decades , us countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid – and widely accepted – currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports .
under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . it is very hard for liberals to accept that poor politics can produce good economics and that good politics can produce bad economics . by bad economics , i mean allow financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurities , and calamity . and yet hungary , for its part , is offering a clear example .
un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a joint un plan for action , and france ’s incoming president , nicolas sarkozy , has proposed a global food partnership . the world bank has forcefully stressed the importance of agriculture to jump-started economic expansion and break the cycle of poverty . countries and organizations are already mobilizing with one another . the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could result in growing global conflict . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as major risks to humankind .
but , because such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bond investments that are riskier than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet negative bond yields are also playing out in countries and regions where the currency is depreciating and likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . so , why , then , are investors holding these assets ? many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , do not have any alternative , because they are required to hold safer bonds . to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit pension plans need positive margin returns to break even ; and when most of its assets yield negative nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to achieve .
the problem is that , in pursuing these reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . with polls showing that some 70 % of french support for the yellow vest protesters in the first quarter , macron has been forced out . in his first year and a half in office in may , macron began to address those problems and managed to deliver a budget along the lines of eu deficit rules . by step-by-step , his reforms appeared consistently to benefit the wealthy . and so when his government was announced to increase a tax on diesel fuel , midlands – and working-class commuters took to the streets .
in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted in part in fear – stoked by populist political leaders across a wide range of countries – that the transnational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” : a “ ideology ” that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . but perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . much of world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence through the international system by intervening politically and militarily in the affairs of others , without any clear endgame . some , too , argue that the global elite have only pretended to pursue socioeconomic change while effectively maintaining a status quo that has benefited them . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are political .
by inflating inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates into serious negative , thereby coercing thrifty households into more spending , instead of saving . with rising demand , firms would hire , and all other things would do well . this is a different logic from the one calling for higher inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at investors ’ expense ) , but it has equally serious weaknesses . first , while low rates might stimulate spending if credit became easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend . think of the soon-to-retire office worker .
though the g-8 made a clear promise , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear instructions that there would not be any such a plan . the g-8 has now been reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year after gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded to a misleading accounting of debt cancellation operations . with these debt retooling operations largely completed , the data are now revealing a stark truth : development aid to africa and to poor countries more generally is stagnant , in contrast to all of the promises made . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , grew by a meager 2 % .
according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life in the transition surveys produced by the world bank and ebrd ( where i am a chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far more than the reality described by official data , typically based on household survey data . but , on the global level , inequality has been decreasing . and while inequality has risen in some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic , and remains at reasonable levels . but that is not what the average citizen seems to view . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the world ’s most powerful policy-setting governmental organizations . america ’s central bank has control of the money supply , and currently exerts a great influence over interest rates , both for short - and long-term borrowing . and while the fed has been partly responsible for the regulators ’ failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even more authority and greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , given that senior fed officials appear to have slipped back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about the dangerous financial-sector behavior that occurred – even as these concerns are voiced by members of the american senate banking committee . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s own political standing is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
this will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and it may well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize our ” climate . more by the time the wisdom is , this catastrophic situation did not develop . unless a global catastrophe is reached – within a meteorite impact , world war i , or a pandemic – the mankind would remain a major ecological force for many millennia . as a result , it is possible that scientists and engineers will face a daunting challenge during the anthropocene era : directing us toward environmentally sustainable management . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading even on the terra incognita .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have recently emerged from a period of dictatorship . in all these cases , a cynic would be half-right . the process calls for a constitution making of often complex and painful sorts . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion , not if at all . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from the far more change-tailored set of social policies .
the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic rise reflects trends from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace for a single quarter in seven years , has surpassed market expectations . and it has been driven in part by an unforeseeable increase in real-estate investment growth to at least 6 % . this is undermining corporate profitability , inviting companies to deleverage and curtail investment , and fueling more declines in ppi . this is not to say that what china needs are more real-estate investment .
it all comes down to “ transfer-pricing ” , whereby prizes israeli multinational corporations use to set a value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which establishes a iranian plant . its iranian affiliate on imports of some inputs ( most notably , an intellectual capital represented by a drug patent ) assembles a product in iran , and exports it back to the u.s. . yet this does not mean that trump skeptics can simply sit back and wait for it to be proven wrong , for it is quite possible , in the first year that an reported us trade deficit would narrow even as the true trade deficit widens . in terms of value-added , a us patent makes the most of its contribution .
the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing the availability of sexual education , and developing strategies to reduce the abortion stigma . initiate solutions at home that encourage developing countries to start moving away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ capacity to work according to local laws . local ngos , along with accountable global partners , must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and give them access to safe abortion services . and yet , as a result of america ’s policies , none of these changes will easily come . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule .
in establishing such a fund , we are ending the era of a formulaic crisis response . it was gandhi ’s conviction that reflections can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . the us wants technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh thinking and disruptive thinking . the us wants firms that already offer refugees an online education , internet access , and it hardware to drive educational provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . what makes this fund unique is not the string of new benchmarks that it sets .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but descended into turmoil . debate over the association agreement with the european union , together with russian-backed rebellion in eastern ukraine , has stoked tensions over distinctions that had previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started to rally itself . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the eu , but the overwhelming majority of voters emerged in favor of europe . russia ’s intervention has had to some extent backfired , boosting support a european orientation .
a top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , under the pressure of both brexit and gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , it will be a call to retain the primacy of global standards and secure continued buy-in for the basel process . the bank for international settlements ’ new general managing director , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s creation , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as the chairman of the fsb . it is likely , too , that there will soon be a new chairman of the basel committee itself . regulators are now keenly focused on the brexit implications , which will require complex arrangements to manage a new relationship between london and the eurozone .
still , regulatory gaps have generated spillover effects across other countries . supervision , greater transparency in financial markets , an efficient realignment system for financial crises , and improved coordination of international political polices . there is a clear logic to international coordination of regulation . the crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally were absent . the crisis made it clear that national supervision of the banks that operate globally was insufficient .
trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupees , and rubles , wiping out us banks . in fact , american extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible , long-term threat . europe can meet the threat of american extraterritorial sanctions in its partnership with china , india , and russia . if the us were to follow them against much of the outside world , the damage to america ’s asian economy , the dollar , stock market , and american leadership would be irreversible . a oil-for-goods deal can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism , such as instex .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold on to debt restructuring . when a sufficient proportion of the creditors would agree on a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of over 90 % of the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gdp debt had done ) , it is possible for the others to get ahead . countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is to be intended . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold debt restructuring .
as america ’s treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america of the people ’s congress noted , for china these plans are to “ rebalance ” its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility under its exchange-rate regime . in fact , rebalancing the growth pattern is a central economic goal of china ’s leadership . but expanding demand and allowing for real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not suffice unless other countries do their part . oil exporters must increase fiscal spending further ; japan and the european zone must trigger higher growth through structural reform ; and the american people must implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings rates . knowing what to do in this increasingly complicated and volatile situation is an easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ just do it . ”
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate welfare measure in more than 80 years . yet , as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as a gauge of an economics ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
the notion that he should n’t take precautions to protect his own interests is an ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and he lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out of obtaining him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pocket should certainly be worrying for the americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite his imperfections , the us remains a positive force in the world . and the west ’s policies towards russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong . indeed , it may well be the only profoundly positive force , along with the european union , which should stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán .
according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poorer countries reduce their levels of greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience around the effects of climate change that they can no longer avoid . while it is important to note that this figure is just a estimate , it represents a preliminary but plausible indicator of climate finance based on insights from developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , that figure would be larger . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that a commitment will be measured . but larger financial flows are needed , mostly from the private sector .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will a greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? moreover , while interstate conflict has collapsed , a intrastate clash fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . and that leads to another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is the set of questions concerning the impact of new technologies on their future . similarly , will governments and institutions steer faster to harness change , or will they overwhelm it ?
if the bush administration sought a stable , secure , diverse , and cheap supply of oil , it might have simply lifted embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let a oil gush . but america ’s interest in iraq was not driven either by economics or energy policies . the bush administration recognized that in particular , iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . for one thing , whoever controls iraqi oil controls iraq ’s oil supplies , while the us does the same for iraq . the irony , though , is that america has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it would in any future democratic iraq .
a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , whereas an estimated 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice amount to the concomitant of western-style capitalist culture . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . in contrast to indian capitalism , outgrowth the ethical lapse of capitalism elsewhere seems especially benign . moreover , even with china becoming the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than chinese , with its per capita gdp in america four times higher than that of china .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at various levels of labor income , for various kinds of consumption , outlays today versus tomorrow , and so forth . viewed from this perspective , a shortcoming by america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to means testing for welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . one efficient tax-raising method is the american payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is close to the average rate ( because the deductions are absent and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) . thus , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , as well as making the scheduled for more graduated ( on the medicare side ) , was a errors from the standpoint of efficient taxation . as a result , the us government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( by increasing transfer programs dramatically ) and more recently at the top ( by raising tax rates for the wealthy ) .
so long as a developing country remains integrated into the global economy – and do n’t take measures to restrain the impact on international prices of home prices – home rice prices and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for the grain , they will have to pay even more to bring it to their countries , and still more to deliver it to consumers who might live a long distance from their ports . raising interest rates can rein in aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame the price increases of some goods and services , particularly nontraded goods and services . but , unless upon taking to the unbearable level , these actions by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a much more modest pace than they are now ? for starters , even if global energy and food prices are increasing at a much richer pace than they are now ?
as a result , they are not formally giving up anything in return . such a pattern is the formula for never-ending conflict and unending defeat . yet the defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders . the leaders brought about by failures and groups that failed to triumph become heroes for claiming that they were courageously fighting an enemy without being crushed . the important points to them are that they gained revenge by inflicting damage , they showed that they were true men , did not buckle under and survive .
trump is unlikely to try to overturn any of them ; and , even if he does try , he will also fail . fearful pronouncements about a win ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . when he leaves office , the american people essentially will be what it was when he entered it : a world ’s most powerful democracy . although america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections and protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . the core institutions of american governance have survived greater challenges than any that trump might pose .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even though tissue has already been removed from the patient ’s body . at the same time , who should have access to these samples ? for what purposes might they be used ? today , there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and repositories to study the various diseases . practically all of us have tissue on their file , somewhere in the world .
leadership is broadly distributed across sound democracies , and it is imperative that all citizens learn more about what makes good and bad leaders alike . most important , in today ’s ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . potential leaders , in turn , may learn more about the sources and limits of emotional iq , vision and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational capacity . they also need to understand better the nature of contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . with soft power , however , the energies of empowered followers are strengthening leaders .
it did so in defiance of the united nations security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s special envoy , from traveling to the region , to set the stage for the talks . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement . that deal was intended to set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the following year . but morocco has prevented it from ever taking place . morocco , too , has repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity , with chirac the gaullist side of sarkozy and françois mitterrand for royal as much as rupture . to a large degree , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is unambiguously mitterrand with fewer mitterrand . royal openly declares mitterand the legacy as she searches for legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s own legacy has more in common with form than substance . when voters cast their choice in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative , rather than positive , considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac faced the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the winner will be whomever that the electorate disliked or fears less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it can not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , since china withdrew its jumbo oil-platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , surveillance ships have been sent on to the senkaku islands less frequently . global power has to be allocated somewhere ; if the us would not fill its leading role on the international stage , an understudy would have to step in . with obama reluctant – or unable – owing to rising political partisanship at home , to take the lead in resolving crises , like the one in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart by 2014 , america ’s nato allies took fright . chinese officials have also become more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the us labor market on massive numbers . most americans ’ ’ ’ ’ per capita incomes and wealth remain below their levels long before the crisis . yes , we have already done some things to make financial markets better better . there have been some increase in capital requirements , but far short of what is needed . indeed , for the most part , typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it has been in more than four decades .
new york – the republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty . what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the major determinant . the party ’s two leading contenders for the nomination , donald trump , and the ted cruz , both argue that they would tear up the iran nuclear deal if it is elected . they are worth recalling us president george w. bush ’s outcome ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework deal ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear bomb . whether or not the us will continue to lead the world remains unclear .
for his part , president vladimir voronin granted amnesty detainees . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin still go on hurl accusations in the opposition and romania of orchestrating the coup d’état . restoring stability and a just democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost , because the moldovans are deserving of a responsible government . stability is also important because the borders of poland , a european member state . indeed , against opposition parties , legal procedures have been opened .
the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem playing out by the policies they had prescribed to an arab ancien régimes . on the eve of their currencies , a few arab autocrats had indeed been lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” line of economic policies . in the process , were they misled by false inferences ? were economists focused on the wrong indicators ? this raises a raft of other questions . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a trouble for the policies they imposed on an arab ancien régimes .
while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after it did , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . the key goal of china ’s capital controls is to stop non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . in the wake of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have amounted to rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . controls are leaky , to be sure , but have worked ( so far ) , which is why china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years .
but what counts is more than that . in fact , democracy has come under direct threat in a country where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots . trump does not just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . at the same time , he and his supporters have taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , an independent media , and more . the nineteenth-century prussian military and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war that would have arrived less than a century after his death .
whereas official interest rates are only 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain pay more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . in short , they alone can not count on structural reforms to stimulate growth in 2012 . the eu needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in its current-account deficits – as in france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs support the real economy , too . so the ecb should do more to unlocking the monetary-policy transmission mechanism ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a perfectly 9 % ratio ; and where necessary , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises .
it also promises to cut taxes on income , put the country ’s social-security system on a firmer path , and lower the cost of the shedding labor force . introducing real competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process up to now , is similarly pledged . aznar ’s program is sensible yet ambitious . during prime minister aznar ’s first term his popular party privatized most public-sector firms , turning many of the service sector . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and at a loss of unemployment .
cambridge : the internet is now reflation for every field of business life ; trump in business activity over internet astounds . an important new report by the american department of commerce , “ the emerging digital economy ” suggests that the internet is reshaping not just american business , but the global economy . in 1994 , at the time of the industrial revolution , three million people , mostly american , used the internet . as recently as january 1995 , there were about 27,000 internet business addresses . in 1998 , 100 million people throughout the world are connected with one another .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving a much sharper scrutiny than more “ natural ” human foods . ( natural foods , too , can pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular kind of cinnamon may cause liver damage . though cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may have occurred , so far no new superweeds have emerged . any new policy making regulations that protect the environment and the health of consumers should take for granted . we should be pleased for sure that – and perhaps even the regulations introduced in response to concerns expressed by environmental organizations – have played a role in this outcome .
unfortunately , another lesson from the ongoing financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until the risks actually materialize . indeed , we are told not to worry about widespread cyber meltdowns , because none occurred and governments are vigilant . the virus can be just a few hundred lines of the computer code , compared with the hundreds of thousands of lines for counter-virus programs that need to be designed to detect wide class of enemies . the protection of the virus and the development of the virus constitute an uneven arms race . so let us hope that we are fortunate for some time to come .
such migrant workers ’ taxes would help the developed world fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . moreover , each dollar invested in this initiative would produce nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally effective use of scarce resources . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in the developed-country workforce would provide a bigger economic boost than the removal of all remaining trade barriers . these impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of top economists tasked with my think tank , a copenhagen consensus center , by assessing potential population-related targets , to identify the best global investments . this approach , in turn , has enormous potential benefits .
wellington – paracetamol ( now known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs . it is the preferred medications for extracting fever and pain due to its safety profile ten years ago , a hypothesis proposed that using paracetamol can increase the risk of developing asthma . substitution of aspirin paracetamol , the researchers proposed , may have resulted in an enhanced allergic immune response , thereby increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , many epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in our uterus , childhood , and adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that using paracetamol can represent an important risk factor in developing asthma .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” ” says charles mcgruder , a professor in the department of physics , and astronomy of the west kentucky university . today , the country is believed to have around 60 working astronomers , more than half of all the astronomers working in africa . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical to raise the profile of science and engineering careers in a world where the most literate have still gone to finance or steer . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the benefit of the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” “ the answer , ” she declares , is partly that by backing a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals .
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and a mega-financial crisis were the logical result . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all of the ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism , became inescapable . because neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , a mega-bank has emerged in the form of a global cartel of banks and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt therefore was created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profiting from the future . in such a system , appeals to gentler capitalism are mere fads , particularly in the post-2008 realities , which reaffirmed total control over society by mega-firms and mega-banks .
emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth . a few years ago , forecasters became convinced that global imbalances would reemerge as the crisis passed . now that it looks unlikely : neither the us nor china is reverting to its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern . america ’s trading position will be invigorated by the shale-gas revolution , which promises energy self-sufficiency , as well as by productivity-enhancing productivity , which auger further retooling from manufacturing . nor are these earlier trade balances on a way to reemerge .
both governments cracked down on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted the media . during the election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated poland in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can occasionally find plausible news alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to take advantage of themselves , their families , as well as their business associates . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month , with his fidesz party in alliance with the christian democrats now holding a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough – to amend the constitution . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the object of multiple investigations by euroanti-fraud offices .
we know that a variety of ill-understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate in any form of cell lines . this loss of capacity for differentiate can come from the special mode in which stem cells are derived , the conditions surrounding their growth , and other handling variables . following these discussions , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow the use of government funds for stem-cell research , but in their current form , to prohibit federally-funded investigators from creating new stem cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines must gain only from the privately-funded , or from the commercial sources that follow the systemmandated protocols . in my view , i believe that restricting the application of government funding to create stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
yet , far from accepting such contributions , the plan would largely cut regulators . for example , a plan would bar regulators from initiating the mega-bank of spain , leaving it to the discretion of a bank ’s own executives . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long before declare bankruptcy , so creditors might step in to do some of the pushing , potentially even forcing a failed firm ’s bankruptcy . while bank regulators have the tools to pressure banks to do likewise , their most efficient one is the power to launch bankruptcy , when it works best for the economy . taking away this tool could have severe adverse consequences , with serious consequences .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has moved away from the need to react to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . instead , we are told about those purported economic payoffs , first and foremost , about the promises of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , that does not measure economic reality , either . the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , a senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of austin , to assess the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and expecting the creation of green jobs . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer peddled .
after all , we have now entered an era in which speeds , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all sectors has been the vital influence of success . yet it is deeply regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are deeply murky . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to spur the two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism . it is absolutely crucial for this text that is coupled with a new method , tailored for the contemporary world in which we live , a world where politics no longer conducts in the muffled debates of ministerial meetings , or through the convoluted communiqués . in today ’s winner-take-all economy , the bulk of the newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest .
while there is a lot that we can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still reap the benefits of international assistance . but the international community needs far more than to provide food and medicine to the victims of famine and drought . necessary as it stands , we need pro-growth investment , which helps to provide employment for our peoples and the products and resources of our world . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable governments , rather than subsidizing failed states . for example , in somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world .
trento – the brotheo most notable result of the recent european parliament election is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats are losing seats to the liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained less than predicted . it is that his citizens voted in far larger numbers than anyone expected . and that shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
in some ways , the killings at srebrenica also plagued the memory of world war ii . yet laudable efforts to prevent this kind of thing from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our fervor to learn lessons from history , we often learn the wrong things , or distort history in the direction of dubious ends . even when mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination scheme was , if not unique , highly unusual . what we know is that hitler did intend to crush any last jewishness , a man , a woman and a child , and a general priority for the international order .
this has been intrinsic to democracy , and it is the duty of politicians to come to terms with the tensions that it provides for rise . yet it is also the duty of citizens to preserve a formal , political sense of citizenship , like state interference broadens , in order to ensure that everyone does not . democratic principles call for organizing a society in such a way that realize both values can and should be realized to the greatest possible degree . this might , in the name of greater equality , limit political freedom . but the path to particularistic action that does not undermine liberty and equality for all of its citizens is narrow .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or conventional signs of a boom ? if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it was 30 years from now , the answer is straightforward and terrifying . stock market prices would be far too high , and the price level would be much higher . households would behave in a totally irresponsible way . the imbalance between exterior , indeed , unsustainable .
for example , he cites the draining away of industrial jobs as the most glaring evidence of france ’s decline . indeed , france does indeed better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , unlike germany , france , the united kingdom , or the united states , have retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it had in the early 1970s . yet deindustrialization has been common to all advanced countries , however , as well . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not nearly as persuasive as he believes . moreover , according to a better-measured measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france is performing very well .
a second lesson that i learned is also useful for a eu that finds itself in a world in which new powers emerged and where every actor from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , france , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on a daily basis . that lesson is that europeans have more friends than they have enemies around the world . these friends deserve respect and attention , and each of the other , and each needs a new political process . i recognize that this is not an exact new lesson , but it is also what i have in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism . if italy and the eu did not understand the need to work with non-european countries , and compel them to feel accountable and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and so close to declare a universal moratorium on capital punishment would fail .
empathy makes us kinder to the people , with whom we empathize . the trouble is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for us workers in mexico and chile , who would then be even worse off with no jobs than their american counterparts are . that is a good thing , but it also has a darker side effect . trump , in his campaign speeches , has made use of miss steinle ’s tragic murder by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . of course , he did not offer any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who saved strangers ’s lives , though such cases were made .
or it could be the case that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it basically missed the global financial crisis . this brings us to the imf “ fourth role , ” namely using its bully pulpit to warn of the risks created by large-country policies . small countries are subject to market discipline , as some latvian will tell you . financial markets and institutions with global reach need the global macro-prudential regulator , not just the supervisors ’ loosely organized college . if so , the fund needs to win back confidence in the imf .
provided that there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is putting up the standard of living . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall except in a few niche markets . businessmen do not need low inflation to spread manufacturing ; they need better employment creation . so they need only the prospect that they will start selling more . this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is roughly half the size of china ’s ’s ’s , yet larger than japan ’s , and more than twice that of india . these divergences help to explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have since carved out of the n-11 , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i failed to devise those groupings , but my organization has come together to manufacture a bbc radio documentary in the mint countries in 2014 . eight years later , the fog economies still have any chance of accounting for around 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . they used to hold with earlier points i raised ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp .
american intelligence agencies had alerted president barack obama to putin about his own tactics , and cautioned putin against a adverse consequences when the two occur met in september 2016 . in the wake of the election , obama went public and expelled russian spies and closed certain diplomatic establishments , but the weakness in america ’s response undercut any kind of deterrent . but obama was reluctant to challenge russia publicly , or took strong actions for fear that russia might escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , and jeopardize hillary clinton ’s expected victory . and because us president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take strong steps . the brilliance of russian innovation in information warfare was to combine current technologies , with a degree of deniability that remained just beneath the threshold of an overt attack .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is decidedly unique . donald trump has rocked how a campaign is run , how a mueller nominee communicates the voters , and the republican party ’s platform , with many of its deviance from the gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s ’s ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless in a matter of hours . it changes his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . russia withdrew from a series of nuclear arrangements , and the kremlin has recently imposed an antiballistic kander missiles that can transport medium-range nuclear devices in kaliningrad near polish borders . and it seems plausible that russia was intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive papers and funding of right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , to support the kremlin . moreover , the ukrainian crisis is far from being resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are not respected , and armed conflict may escalate at any time . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
trump ’s approach is particularly striking , given that china ’s swift emergence as america ’s strategic rival is america ’s core national-security issue . so it looks like us friends again , or maybe it can simply resting before the dispute resumes . but a deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly lashed out before the dispute resumes . why , then , does he seem to have despise the eu so deeply ? why should america try to undermine europe , rather than seek closer cooperation in order to protect its economic and geopolitical interests ?
in order to achieve this goal , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to solve problems , and to resolve the conflicts affecting all or parts of the international community . the messages – the product of several months of debate , within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and a rules-based international order rooted in universal norms . ” as gauck made clear , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” ” must aim at “ preserving and continuing adaptation ” to this order . traditional determinants of states have considerable power relative to other states , geography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological proficiency , remain relevant ; but they often prove insufficient to confer a genuine impact on international politics . shaping power builds relationships , and invests in institutions that enable it to work decently with others , and to establish and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
and he has implicitly denounced gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , with promises to assist poland in diversifying its gas supplies . with its performance , trump has managed to attract enthusiasm across the political spectrum , rather than just from pis-curated crowds , through part of his public greeting of the opposition leader lech wałęsa – who had been booed by pis supporters and remains the steady goal of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an outspoken critic of the pis government , has concluded : “ i believe trump ’s talking has been very well done . it has not much-maligned a single negative word on the part of the european union , germany , or france . it has made powerful allusions to poland ’s history , and has been very flattering to the us as poles .
add to that china ’s other strengths – from annual gdp over $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . but this does not mean that risks are missing . on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing its volatility level , and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . the key will be to get markets and policymakers upon the same page . given that all of this activity is taking place in the offshore renminbi market , which is small on scale , and has only limited linkages with china ’s financial system , the result of china ’s hesitancy on financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility remains controllable .
in a church boasting of saint thomas aquinas , such “ the know-nothingism ” looks startling . even young men study for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training and conducted purposefully . if your behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give money to the church – you are fine . many polish bishops almost openly declare themselves to their wares : you are supposed to listen , not think , or argue . faith is a matter of heart , of course .
like every democracy where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular profession – including journalists – are offered no form of immunity from these kinds of severe criminal charges . furthermore , it should be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are publishing nearly five million copies in turkey , with its total daily circulation of almost five million copies . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its judicial reform . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the turkish government . freedom of speech and the press guarantee turkey its constitution and its articles of agreement .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . the us and others will need to push back , in order to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome taking its place among the world ’s leading asean countries should it behave responsibly and according to a set of rules that are established for all . the larger policy choices , however , will be made by china in a position to make . as a result , nationalism could become the primary-source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer count on the rapidly rising standard of living .
large speculative bubbles are rare events , and they are useful . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a type of interpersonal contagion . a bubble forms when contagion rates rise to the ideas that fueled a bubble . ( little bubbles , when the price of , say , individual stocks do all that time , and do n’t qualify as a response to this question . ) but rates of contagion depend on thinking patterns that make it difficult to judge .
the ideology of the right , as represented by the neo-liberal washington consensus , market fundamentalism , was much more successful , even though its failures often go unacknowledged . the century had just ended was crude by simplistic ideologies , with both the left and the right . surely , socialism had its day in court , and it was found wanting . the great communist experiment is practically over ( to save a handful of holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . the past half-century has shown that while development is achievable , it is not inevitable .
second , with intra-eu migration having surged , there are now nearly 15 million europeans residing in eu countries other than their own . by gathering or purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment the electorate into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms , and then feed personalized online content to the most susceptible voters . microtargeting has proved most effective not to win over uncorrelated voters , but to dissuading people from voting altogether . as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to the difficulty registering in host countries , a paucity of polling stations , and an overly complicated absentee-voting procedure . there is strong evidence to indicate that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election has played a decisive role in key states that he needed to win the electoral college .
even if the chinese authorities did manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability over the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would de facto become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that holding currencies do not easily set in . at the same time , the rest of the world might be reluctant to construct claims vis-à-vis china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . it is also perhaps no accident that the world ’s major financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in those countries where the rule of law is well established and where foreigners do not face potentially legal discrimination . true , over three centuries of the emergence of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated : the gold standard , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar . although the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen all offered viable alternatives for the dollar since world war ii , often providing better stores of value that are less prone to inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves .
in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was close to 4 % of gdp , perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but larger than the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , with most other eurozone countries running deficits that were higher than germany in ten years ago . in weighing which the lessons of germany ’s ’s ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what government can do and what remains the responsibility of doing business , workers , and society at large . the one area where government obviously is in charge is public finance . the turnabout in germany ’s public finances , for the most part , was expenditure cuts .
and if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world with the use of massive volumes of real-time data . to see how things are working in reality , we need to construct living laboratories – that are , communities willing to try novel ways of doing things ( blunt , behaving like guinea ) . that involves moving beyond the closed , question-and-answering process typical of a lab , and applying our social ideas , even more frequently than ever before . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data city , ” ” ” which i have launched with trento town in italy , along with telecom italia , telefónica , the research university of fondazione bruno kessler , the us-based data institute , and local companies . importantly , this living lab has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment whose purpose is to establish better lives .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . because the eu lacks an army , or a vital covert service , it needs to use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical ends . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . but the way european political toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent part of life , and we all recognize this . take a cheaper wine , we might splurge on dessert , for example . in choosing a cheaper wine , we might splurge on dessert . in order to correct a rooftop , we might have to accept a less extravagant summer vacations . we all recognize this from our private national budgets .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will convert the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in a way that an vastly increased majority for ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect may to throw on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s upcoming election announcement : to crush the saboteurs . but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately result in an even more terrifying reversal , such as napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after he broke any backlash in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch the victory from the brexit jaws of defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may has effectively extended a deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from 2019 to 2022 .
no wonder an impressive premier is thought to favor some political loosening . it is more than rudd to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in advantage for china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with change . from east to west , one looks for politics to function in ways that are , to become diplomatic , sub-optimal . then again , perhaps we are fortunate that matters are n’t worse . elsewhere , this type of turmoil has a democratic safety valves .
according to this vision , the eu had the nation to lose and the continent stand to gain . but some recent electoral results indicate that they worry more about losing a nation . princeton – the largest unresolved issue in europe – respect mobility . ever since the united kingdom ’s 1986 single act took off limits on working in other member countries , the continent has been the single labor market , at least in theory . the integration process was intended to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one eu country to another .
a better alternative would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have more say on the eu . common political institutions accountable to voters across the european union would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage german power . with the no-bailout rule rebuilt again , governments would have more space to pursue counter-cyclical policies , and would respond to voters ’ changing priorities . but rising animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both the creditor and debtor countries mean that greater federalism is politically unfeasible and potentially even dangerous . one possibility would be greater federalism .
during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on fundamentals in areas like the fiscal-policy answer and the international monetary fund ’s role . by slapping the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also placed some pressure on governments regarding what not to do . in these respects , the g-20 was an obvious step forward . bogotá , lima , santiago , and santiago – international economic coordination – are as needed because it is elusive . yet , while the g20 attempted to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , it was far less successful in its incipient meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , which comprises chief executive officers of america ’s largest companies , with the combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion , updated its longstanding declaration on corporate purpose . it is not just a matter of shareholders , ceos say , ; their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . in fact , it was shareholders who came last on the ceos ’ new list . and the statement ’s principal author , in his presumed exhilaration , is reported to have said that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by a number of antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems with many current medications is that , even related to treatments , a recurrence of major depression is extremely high – about 70-80 % . this suggests that underlying physiological processes – those possibly inciting structural change in the brain – are not completely arrested , thus making a new generation of anti-depressant medications urgent . if so , newtongues would have to target what appears to be the progressive neurodegenerative transformations in the brain that we infer are , because recurrence of the depression is so high under the currently available treatments . lithium , a mood stabilizer and neuro-protective agent , has the properties we seek , though its toxicity make the process less unequal than ideal .
that is also the view by betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s article : while parents like amy chua are the reason that asian-american americans like me are on therapy . stanley sue , a psychology professor at the university of california , davis , has studied a suicide that is especially common among the asian-american males ( in other ethnic groups that more males commit suicide not to females ) . chua would reply that by reaching highly grade achievement brings great satisfaction , the only way to do that is through the hard work itself . he believes that family pressure has a significant factor . tiger parenting aims to get children to making the most of what competencies they have , and so seems to lean toward the “ clever ” side of a “ clever or happy ” choice .
one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have , in recent years , managed to turn themselves into power . in some cases , they are individuals like venezuela ’s president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s former prime minister silvio berlusconi . many of the other names might have been added to the “ big win ” list . mostly , they enter the political scene from france but manage to form a racially personalized grouping like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . in fact , the list tells us all two things .
fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , with marriage viewed less and less like a lifelong union . there is a clear status benefit to a minority ; there is no obvious harm to a majority ; and the long-term consequences are unfathomable . after a lot of soul-searching , i voted for the bill , though with no acute sense that i was striking a blow to freedom . families have fewer and fewer children , and more and fewer kids give birth from wedlock . so one “ unintended consequences ” of a bill might add welcome recruits to the married ranks , even though such recruits are for a historically unusual species .
setting the right example is another critical form of communication by the leaders themselves . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be an honest communicator . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government posts ’ salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced his intention to forgo the raise for themselves . ronald reagan was a master of well-selected anecdote . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily reduced their salaries as a means of communicating concern to their staff and public opinion .
london – current antibiotics are becoming more ineffective , not only at the fight for common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also in treating a wide range of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that are now threatening again to become incurable . indeed , ten million people could die by 2050 due to amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india housing some one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have lost some $ 100 trillion . with the g-7 leaders committed in their recent joint declaration to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 , and china as it chairs the group for its first time to take the fight to its next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality , or their country , of development .
sydney – the inauguration of the five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a reminder that the ascension to china ’s next generation of leaders to assume power in 2012 may be the most consequential development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees have been born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . the upcoming generation of leaders will put the first with little or no personal memory of the tumult and hardship endured during mao zedong ’s years . two of them , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 years old . forgetting that history may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for the better or worse , it might also ease constraints , setting its leaders in a freedom .
last but not least , there is the scenario of chaos . for example , a cyber superbug destroys the networks on which our way of living has come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and ecological breakdown . in this set of potential outcomes , one highlight : the uncertainty of europe ’s role in the future of the global system . to prevent the inexorable decline , europe must reach a clear policy choices on three key issues . first , eu leaders must establish ways to resolve the euro crisis .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , together with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , growing illiquidity , and crowded exits . past experience has taught china the real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is via painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluations . past experience has taught china its real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is via painful structural reforms – not ease money and competitive devaluations . true , the american dollar remains a safe-haven currency , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . the question is whether american and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , particularly china , continue to funding speculation against themselves ?
but real life , too , is traumatic and limited . we saw buildings – not only hamas ’s former headquarters , which remains in rubble . with houses riddled with bullet holes , there are no electricity , much less than eight hours per day . admittedly , houses are riddled with bullet holes . and a good traffic deal , with new cars smuggled in use through tunnels beneath a “ philadelphia phi route ” route ” runs along the egyptian border .
falling prices have been paralyzing japan ’s economy for a decade . now , china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently as well . many central bankers are like the proverbial general planning to combat the last war . but , unlike hindu military strategy , flawed monetary policies are producing inevitable damage rather than just worrisome risks . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and because they may fail to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation .
extraterritorial sanctions are the other way that america could kill the jcpoa . that clearly is on america ’s agenda , particularly with the white house ’s neoconservative doyen john bolton back as the national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist another kind of ruinous american military adventures . even if america now does certify itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block implementation of the iran deal with the rest of the world . the first would be to foment war .
critics of america ’s policy point out that even if america thwarted attempts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and , around the rest of the world , by one way or another . channeling that influence through a newly created international organization , they argue , is more likely to temper raw power grabs . the size of china ’s ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic upheavals – is a fact that can not be wished away at all . a containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but one can not be used today without flexibility and a sense of strategic common purpose . it was probably in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead with establishing the aiib .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without really saying something for it . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses , a worldview exemplified in his statement that america ’s allies need to make a bigger contribution to their security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and rising threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . in fact , trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike statesman . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear that it will be what the united states – or the world – needs .
global multinational firms are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the u.s. and other countries . in 2009 , doing business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies include the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice that of japanese firms . but business investment as a share of gdp has transformed very little in the us during the past decade , while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . for example , us-based multinational corporations , whether headquartered in the u.s. or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same decade earlier . and american multinationals still locate around 84 % of their r & d activities in the us , often in innovation clusters around the world 's research universities .
beijing – as measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at roughly 48 % , according to official statistics . given that city dwellers ’ share was just 18 % , this is remarkable progress . but it remains unsatisfactory , as most other middle-income countries at a similar stage of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , big and small , lacks any sign of significant urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose incomes derive mainly from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the verge of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran , under a new and more radical new president , is moving irresistibly towards possessing a nuclear capacity . a free electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and a unfortunate episode in the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments give the search for re-interpretation .
that made it easier for lula , in particular , to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having as recently as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s short-lived incursion into ecuador , which murdered farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on drug dealers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that follows the precedent set by uribe in dealing with the farc , has also helped because economic growth has muted domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout because things have started to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula has no intention of letting chávez lead the way . last january , lula visited israel with a string of leading brazilian business and investment deals worth $ 1 billion .
the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign the long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine enter a customs union with russia , in exchange for carving out billions of dollars of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . prior to our eyes , a tragedy in a number of acts is unfolding , at which point both the players and the them aim are clear . indeed , russian president vladimir putin appears to have achieved his political objective , namely pushing ukraine , which drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is unfamiliar is how many more acts this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – it ends .
but there is a bigger question that lurches behind the gge : can norms truly restrict behavior in the first place ? though the number of participants has risen from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no vote . most experts agree that a treaty of cyberspace currently would have been politically impossible ( although this was the case where russia and china made such suggestions in the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also involve codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and broadly shared expectations of correct behavior among a group ( which would establish common law ) . in essence , these constraints can vary from global , global , plurilateral .
to be sure , the politics of monetary policy also has redistributive effects . nevertheless , monetary policy is , by far , a much more awkward , indirect , and imprecise , path of choosing between winners and losers than over fiscal policy . think of the divergent effects of interest rates on the debtors versus their creditors ’ side . independent central banks may occasionally feel distress for politicians , but at least they might be employed as scapegoats when the necessary-a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful instrument . such considerations should guide the selection of what to follow the european stability pact .
if commercial banks were allowed simply to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risks of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters into equity and real-estate markets . indeed , in the last few months , china ’s ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing . thus , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than enterprises ’ demand , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing their full-year target date . unlike in the u.s. , china did not suffer from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . its government was far too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fears of the negative impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , was overly cautious in dealing with the bubbles when they reappeared .
erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also expanded into the education system , with the establishment of a markedly religious curriculum . now a constitutional reform supposedly designed to “ promote turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as the guardian of the secular state and enhance government control of the judiciary . indeed , erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s mediation capacity , he recovers the burden of his ottoman forbears as the peace and security guarantors in the mashreq . in return turkey , a new law recently made lessons from the arabic obligatory in schools . it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision .
thus , european integration had to be crafted by real policies and institutions , not decree . so he and giscard crafted the european council ( composed of the heads of europe ’s many governments ) , which now stands as a major player in the european union ’s institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration that arrived to fruition one generation later . he remained skeptical of notions of irreversible progress . change for the better might emerge solely from practical initiatives , not sunday ’s speeches .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . for britain , prospects are sudden , and better , than at any time since june 2016 . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are sure to stabilize as soon as a term for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship widens again from a new very soft , april 12 deadline , until or beyond .
after iranians “ none at all , ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s vision of a “ coalition of the willing ” ? the iranians , of course , are not the equivalent of the eu ’s what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a major disappear and challenge of their institutional , political , and even psychological nature . it no longer dreams for becoming the “ united states of europe , ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of a “ european ” ” has remained too ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , to prove effective . can the most committed , pro-integration europeans abandon the pack without being paralyzed by a nato coalition ?
the good news , though perhaps not all , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and to the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is also a dose of realism , one of which is now required . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but it is . indeed , terrorism is , and will continue to be , to be , one of this era ’s scourges . we can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , because it is the organization and the de facto state that controls territory and resources .
failing that , the left comes to power with a reversal of years of reform and progress . mexico ’s own skillful success in rebuilding opec ( increasing the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on , and even to widen , those of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . mexico ’s economy has now had a good few years ; not very hard to achieve given a booming america next door , and huge liquidity in global capital markets . but a currency board will also help to start financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms that were starved of capital-intensive investments and even to widen the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . there is a need for small and medium-size firms to become a part of mexican capitalism .
it demands the sense of the social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful modernization process . such help will not yield instant results , but medium-term awareness – which means readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also a sign of the liberal order . fighting al qaeda , therefore , is not a war , but it is a danger . it is , in part , an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances and partly a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration . people caught between a lost past and a future have yet to gain needed help .
groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups , many of them outside of syria . these are the groups criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . it is amongst these groups that the radical islamists have gained a foothold . but there are limited influence at the grassroots level over local opposition groups inside syria that are equally diverse and divided . fear of another islamist takeover is the second key argument against toppling assad ; but the longer he remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by incarcerating regulators ’ hearts and minds , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle has given a narrow private-sector elite , mostly on wall street , at almost every turn of the housing boom . the downside shoved onto the rest of the society , particularly the relatively uneducated and out-of-touch , who now have lost homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or the all of the above . but they are paying a price to pay for it . but this was not the case for over-regulation and over-reaching . in fact , these people did not cause the crisis ; indeed , they made themselves .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has created large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . the unemployment rate stands at roughly 11 % , with the record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . french leaders have demonstrated the inability to communicate effectively or apply past experience in analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by enlisting themselves with overblown rhetorical battles about minor controversies . at the same time , the political crisis has been impeding the authorities ’ pursuit of difficult reforms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause for celebration : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . to this end , there is still much that needs to be done . in 2012 , two decades after the government embarked on a series of pro-growth reforms aimed at opening up the economy , the official poverty rate hit 22 % , less than half the rate that it was in 1994 . but the time has come when india was working to raise its aspirations . escaping abject destitution , though an important milestone , is not the same as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security .
once the march to war started , there has been little room left for policy diplomacy . yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump counseltian gorka recently told the associated press that , “ the idea that us secretary of state tillerson is discussing military issues is simply nonsensical . ” if that does n’t change soon , the us may , just as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] came to war i , yet again . ” but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have any significant influence over military issues ? south korean political leaders must also avoid hastening of this intensifying war rhetoric .
alemán , too , faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the party ’s “ liberal wing . ” if alemán blocks montealegre the plc ’s message of the plc and pushes it to form another political party , ortega ’s chance to win the presidency sharply . the business interests that finance his political campaign faces a difficult dilemma : is it preferable to align with a plc dominated by the corrupt alemán , or to encourage a new democratic force , while contributing to ortega ’s victory ? while a three-way race is sheer speculation on this point , it is apparent that he offers ortega the best of all electoral worlds . it ’s so tempting that ortega seems likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interest .
but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , for friedman the key was to keep the money supply -- by an amount of purchasing power , in readily spendable form , in the hands of firms and households , in a stable form . a difference in opinion , which rested on differing judgments about how the world worked , which might ( and ultimately was ) resolved through empirical research , one might have said . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary -- that the private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­, and that a return of strategic , powerful , but constrained , economic , government intervention was necessary for maintaining stability . a relatively minor , technical difference in means , perhaps one should have said . and for one thing , you would have been half right .
but speculators are thinking ahead and shifting away from commodities today in anticipation of the future higher interest rates prevailing in 2015 ; the result was to bring next year ’s price level to a this day . the prospect of america ’s monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . a fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , already functioning . the euro is down 8 % against the dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen is down 14 % . the result has been the dollar ’s appreciation against the euro and yen .
likewise , i was aware that the un ’s human rights council made israel ’s repeated condemnations over the previous two years but paid little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction by the council offered greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s top human rights body is being inherently anti-israel . i was aware that judge goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human rights lawyer , and advocate a shared similar fear when he was initially brought to a successful conclusion . but he was able to work with the council to secure an agreement that he felt confident that he would enable the mandate to be interpreted on a basis that would allow his team to address the actions that both parties take on the conflict . i decided that i could not undertake the un mission on these reasons .
though in theory communism aimed at establishing a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethality , gulags , broad censorship , and ubiquitous whistleblowers . the net effect of these brutal actions was a generalized loss of beliefs . in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had significant soft power . many communists led opposition to fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was a wave of the future . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s crimes in 1956 and , with the repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and behaviors ; they could not explain their causes . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our own psychological understanding . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution has influenced how strongly our brains shape .
indeed , valuing the impact of any research project is tricky . even highly preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of their findings at the time they are receiving them . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , has pointed out in a thoughtful journal science : “ one may be recognizing good science just as it happens , but significant science may be viewed only in the rear-view mirror . ” when salvador luria , my university of micro biology professor , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he makes the point eloquently sending a humorous cartoon that went on to anything congratulated him at the prize . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table .
it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the very top capturing nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . in fact , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was incorrect that he paid a lower tax rate than his own secretary of state . america ’s tax code has been already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . and , when implemented fully ( in 2027 ) , it raises taxes for a majority of americans in the center ( the second , third , and fourth out of a row ) .
to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many types of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate operatives – on the grounds that they establish their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 hides the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies like the ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and the food-delivery company doordash . a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors or as platform employees with which they have operated contracts and for whose customers provide the services . california , a american state with more than two million independent contractors , has attempted to resolve this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies government legal criteria to determine how to categorize workers . applying a three-part “ abc test ” that many states are already using to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than workers .
making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time ever , invoked rbi section 7 of the rbi , which allows it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths indicates that more than interest rates are at stake . the government is particularly contented by rbi actions to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a large volume of non-performing assets , and to prevent risk buildup in other parts of the financial system . such measures are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can n’t come right out , to say that .
to be sure , abe has not faced the sort of gleaming expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama has done . but , after two decades of leaders who , with the possible exception of junichiro koizumi , have promised little and reached less , japanese voters have little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his asia pledges . as any democratic politician would attest , disappointed expectations may well become the harshest electoral adversary of all . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy for the first time . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambitions ; set his bold economic-reform agenda , and vowed to boost japan ’s global influence .
those individuals who carry at least one copy of gene variant , which does not permit the body to metabolize the plavix , have a 300 % higher risk of clotting the stent . there are alternative drugs , such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , that instead of the plavix can be used to bypass the problem . the story of interferon , given a single year for patients with the hepatitis c virus , is especially striking . in many such patients , doubling the rate of doses of plavix , and keeping checking platelet function with a point-of-care test designed to assure the suppression , can override the lack of response . this variation in the genome is exceptionally common , present to 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and more than 50 % of those of asian ancestry .
after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations while peace divides them . repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders . west africa , too , would be affected , has become in recent years a leading transit point for south american drugs headed to europe . repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where the drug cartels tearing apart the country and america , the world ’s largest source of demand . if chávez ’s venezuela became the narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc .
the key , though , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . at its heart is the realization that reducing extreme poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investments directed at the world ’s poorest . rapid economic growth at the expense of the private sector , including foreign direct investment , is vital . so the budget promotes critical areas for both market reform and growth promotion , including measures to expand the financial sector , support exports , and liberalizing inflows of foreign direct investment . the second pillar of poverty reduction has been targeted investment for the non-poor , especially for the rural poor .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , may well play directly into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . in the middle east , countries are attempting to figure out which should be contained . fighting to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran and israel . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran .
cambridge – american treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on every side . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are merely a forum to make unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks any government experience – persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms , like open trade , is in everyone ’s interest ? after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments that mnuchin ’s predecessors oversaw . domestically , it is caught between the promises it has made ( like the ultra-“ mnuchin rule ” ) that taxes would n’t be cut for the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax-reform plan includes cuts to the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( making the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , in which american treasury secretaries would typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin seems to have a difficult time .
cambridge – how should one evaluate a deal reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement reached on december 12 than did the discussion . some avid environmentalists faded that the deal had no clear pledge to limit global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . what emerged in paris was actually better , as negotiators could agree on practical steps in the right direction . but such a commitment would not have been credible .
unfortunately , they were educated in the religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim professionals , fearing for their own safety , began moving their way into ghettos . with discrimination soon setting off along class lines , a growing number of indian muslims have begun looking for links with the muslim community elsewhere in the world . muslim charities , often financed by saudi arabia and other arab countries , started moving to social areas where the state had failed dismally , particularly education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys first enrolled school .
today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than do state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . with a fraction of the resources of soes , private firms employ a large share of the proletariat , produces goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , by their superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by effectively paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss the fact that the workers protesting , not in the liberal zhejiang provinces and guangdong ’s liberal provinces , but in the northeastern state of socialist bastions , is a ignominious mystery . workers resist menial jobs in capitalizing on capitalistic wenzhou but against no jobs in socialist shenyang . a government can not pay unemployed workers its pensions because socialism discouraged its finance .
but , while we are seeing inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the opposite is true for contests among national teams . the average margin of victory among the top eight world cup national teams has steadily decreased , from more than two goals in the 1950 ’s to about 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and to just 0.88 goals in a 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games played at the final tournament , not just those among the top eight national teams . the poorer or smaller ones can hardly dream of winning the european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or an nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did . the drop in the winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup rose from 16 to 32 national teams , many of them new and rather unjustly .
in fact , the us budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue-chip in which us interest rates stay low but the gdp growth ambles along with about 2 % . in the omb paper , the real interest rate on three month us treasuries is expected to remain well below 1 % for a decade . moreover , in that those projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked rise in long-term growth as us administration forecasts would threaten historically anomalous . currently , ten-year us treasuries offer more than triple the ten-year us treasuries yield .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , as well as the institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last deeds was to replace a majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 with a proportional rule . under the new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties in share to the votes , but a special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : the pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium , which ensures a comfortable majority in the deputies ’ chamber ( the lower house ) . a new electoral system tends to alter politicians ’ incentives and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and more unstable governments . that result would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was forced to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term .
and it has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . while it is comfortable for the current 7 % rate , it is still far below the double-digit rates that prevailed in 2008 . this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformations and industrial upgrading are not the unsustainable credit-led growth model of the past , is the key to achieving high-income status . in view of the need for deeper economic restructuring , and given long-term demographic trends that will lower the supply of labor , the pre-2008 rate of gdp growth is unlikely to recover . but there is more at judging wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be possibly affected by a changing climate . for example , how will a city cope with increased flood risk , and how will agricultural land be maintained productively as drought grow more severely ? proponents of the climate call for much deeper public - and private-sector cooperation to increase green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the heightened impact of climate change and to develop clear global standards to defuse the climate risks that investment projects pose . here , public-investment institutions , like the european investment bank , can assist with adaptation in a variety of ways .
the speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks , using each means of communications to intimidate and break the collective will of their liberal citizens . “ more than half of that battle is taking place on the media battlefield , [ for ] we are in a media battle in a race for [ muslims ’ hearts and minds will . ” terrorists have skillfully tailored to fight wars in today ’s media age , but for the most part , american and other democracies have not . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion .
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian claims for environmental tort and human-rights abuses before the american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those acting negligently or with impunity . all of this explains why sulpicio ’s lines , the owner of the startups ’ princess , has remained in commercial operations , despite its many lapses . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damaging awards as a tool for controlling behavior , particularly by businessmen . simply put , philippine courts have not made it sufficiently costly to keep non-seaworthy vessels in check . to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages in order to discourage conduct malfeasance to societies do exist on the books .
america ’s congress is considering legislation that will allow the trump administration to re-impose sanctions on european firms involved in the project , even as such firms are contractually obliged to see the work through . and , in accordance with gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs its pipeline project , america ’s next ambassador to germany has behaved more like an “ occupation officer ” than as a us diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments furious . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ national sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europeans are in the midst of an internal economic crisis , a result of the europeans saddling southern eurozone countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash that severely reduced their competitiveness within the european system .
all have since abolished controls at their shared borders and adopted a common visa policy for non-member citizens . it is certainly handy to treat the flight from zurich to oslo as domestic travel , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrival . and it is unquestionably convenient to drive progress from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at every border one crosses . indeed , that convenience is probably why the few eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territories without border controls .
such cooperation has been vital to fight terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . still , europeans have focused more on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , by strengthening our data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become a competitive one . defining such a strategy might help europe identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . europeans have become heavily dependent on such companies , which are all based in both china or america .
but lending would be inhibited even if the banks were healthier . the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up smes , while enabling hundreds of these now-smaller lenders to fail . just adding the liquidity , while running persistent current austerity policies , will not reignite the spanish economy . the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up smes , while enabling hundreds of these now-smaller lenders to fail . just adding the liquidity whereas the banks ’ continuing current austerity policies will not re-shape the spanish economy .
oil is a fungible commodity , a markets clear at a common price . for its part , the world learned that the lesson following the arab-israel war of 1973 . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands to punish them for their support for israel . but oil destined for the us and the netherlands shifted to other countries like japan , while oil destined for other countries found its way to the us and the netherlands . when the dust settled , it turned out that america , the dutch , and other us importers all experienced roughly similar levels of the shortcoming , paving the way for the equally damaging high price .
when the sun sets in myanmar , fear is rising . the monks have retreated , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and former capital . this crackdown continues under cover of darkness . the world has been horrified by graphic images of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . but the bullets and clubs that are being unleashed on buddhist monks have worked .
germany ’s ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that these sanctions should include the expulsion of the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece would confront its current economic trauma . the underlying issue is whether european monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions for those fleeing rules . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance following the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , rising debt , a depressed currency , and insufficiently infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electrical power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and so forth . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth will open to all of humanity , we should be able to reflect upon how far we have arrived . once again , it would ludicrously expensive , or simply impossible , to achieve similar capabilities in earlier times of history . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could buy a nomenclator , a slain tasked with memorizing biases and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a baseline smartphone is better than to have entourage of the dozen or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants .
vital interests guiding chinese policies are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( which comprises taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for the long term . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for this reason – will pursue its foreign-policy interests in a totally irredsentimental way . insofar as this may indeed be correct , the united states will n’t be replaced as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century after the us-led international order .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set in motion a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , increased sharply . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not sufficient to make the vagaries of the market . wages and prices plummeted , but not enough to enable argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantages face high hurdles in entering wealthy countries ’ markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – by some say , becoming strongly undervalued .
when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with lower consumption contributing to depressed employment and private investment . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lesson of either episode . making matters worse when the current stock-market correction started in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-repurchase restrictions while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to buy more stocks . not only did they fail to mitigate risks , underscored by the meltdown of 2007 , that new retail investors introduce into markets ; in fact , they exacerbated them , by permitting – and even encouraging – those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . it is far more difficult to detect circuit breakers for this dynamic than it does for , say , that caused balance-sheet distress in the financial sector .
faced with this uncertainty , they are not readjust their spending ; instead , refusing to spend until the mists clear , sending the economy into a tailspin . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed his fallacy . it is the shock , not the adjustments that are made , that spreads on the system . when system shocks are experienced , agents can not know what happens next . but i doubt that it has .
america ’s finance industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages , and , to be sure , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes would have to be imposed upon it . the financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society , and prices are still being driven by the private sector . taxes on competitive speculative activity might encourage banks to concentrate greater attention in realizing their crucial societal role in providing credit . over the longer run , most economists agree that governments , particularly in the advanced industrial countries with aging populations , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . moreover , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to correct problems caused by excessive leverage , and too-big-to-fail banks .
but public reaction to them , together with the recent oil-price spike , may well account for a good measure for changing market psychology . economists might counter that they might look at the public thought and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and the economists less omniscient ) than they liked to imagine . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s comments may precipitate such change . so , while these things happen in ways hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words simply as careful as they do to those of bernanke in trying to grasp the directions of the world ’s stock markets .
new york – in their efforts to pass the bailout blueprint for america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but , for most asians , the economic mood of armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to its knees . the bonfire sparked the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread across east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations that reach as far as countries like russia and brazil .
plato ’s purpose in the dialogue , of course , is not to define piety : if socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable those who the euthyphro offered , he does not reveal it . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance about piety ; and that euthyphro thus can not really know that prosecuting his father is the right thing to do . and to know that , one must be mindful of what one does not know as much about what one does . the knowledge derived from this sort of individual ’s own self-examination is crucial in any decision-making . one ought to recognize the moral character of any individual ’s actions is contemplating .
this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of acres of farmland and the causes of power shortages . moreover , water scarcity means food scarcity . after all , its agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with brief supplies of water , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . one billion people worldwide do not lack access to clean water ; more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . in northern africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions among farmers and herds .
recognizing this imperative is just the first step . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth , driven by the massive influx of young workers , is ending . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture , and its r & d encouragement , made it possible for the brazilian agriculture research company to pioneer more than 9,000 tech projects , including by designing a tropical soybean strain that can thrive on brazil ’s climate . efficiency-boosting , setting brazil ’s crop yields on par with those in advanced economies has soared .
second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members are making policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g-20 ’s meeting at cannes last november , for example , europe has raised its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , took steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established rules governing fiscal discipline , and implemented a range of labor – and product-market reforms . yet the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies an urgent need for much more decisive reform . we are confident that europe will act together to confront these challenges , and we will continue to support such efforts , because european stability and growth matter for us all . to be meaningful , the message must be backed up with action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that this will be accountable for meeting their pledges in full .
whenever we prioritize , we say , not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not increase our ambition ( which is considered cynical ) . but not talking about policy makes the need to prioritize went away . in fact , eu choices have only become less clear-cut , less democratic , and more efficient . they need to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized well , lest they end up as anything less than one . refusing to prioritize , relationships primarily with one ’s most publicized problems is wrong .
as it stands , surveys consistently show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than the level at which they would consider ideal . this is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though there are several countries , like norway , where humans have a more realistic view . correcting for such misperceptions will alter the people ’s views of a redistributive set of policies . the point is not to get lost in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful discussion of inequality based on concrete figures with the goal of setting clear targets . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate needs to be better informed .
for its part , these sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary claim to leadership is to have ended the penury of the first post-soviet years – to resume his own imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . similarly , denying any bank doing business with a russian bank or corporation access america ’s financial system would create the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . third , obama should emphasize china ’s stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was its greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
new york – for the past two years , matters have been quite different . against this backdrop , pay in the financial sector has skyrocketed . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a handful of other centers have become money-creating machines that have made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private-equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me have spent much of our time persuading them to recycle a part of their gains into their ancient schools . many financial firms have been dampening their balance sheets dramatically , and some have gone out of business altogether .
in a february meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart at the un reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz shut down an american base . both diplomats conversing in russia , with both sides conversing . the horse-trading around a base has been intense . “ visibly flustered ( the chinese ambassador ) has temporarily lost his ability to speak russia and began spluttering in chinese to the silent aide diligently take notes right behind him , ” according to a confidential american diplomatic cable earned by web site wikileaks.org . indeed , policies have emboldened pro-russian politicians , who would love nothing but to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan .
but , ultimately , the best way for them to be addressed and to prevent their resurgence is by ensuring that economic opportunities are available to those determined to try . it is time that france begins to question its economic model . social assistance with little hope of individual improvement is far from sufficient . in a recent pronouncement statement , chirac proclaimed : “ we will need to draw on every lesson from this crisis , when the time comes and order has been restored , with much courage and lucidity . ” but these lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to presume .
we entrust them with propelling our country toward the new levels of growth and development , to which we have now nominated for a cabinet minister of its age , creating a specialized youth council . we believe that they are faster than we are in acquiring and processing knowledge because they have grown up around the tools and techniques that we lacked at our own age . we also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuel rage fires . we can not , and will not , let alone enable this in our own country . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance – and instill it in our children on the basis of their education and our own example .
we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates produce massive credit expansions . to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy alone is both impossible and absurd to try one . in countries with higher price growth than in germany , but with equal borrowing costs , this can not produce anything but overheating , greater inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to ask policymakers in a democracy with large surpluses in order to raise taxes , or to cut the benefits or public investments of the huge magnitude needed to stave off catastrophe strikes , is out of touch with reality . how to tighten fiscal policy in order to take over 100 % of gdp in credit-induced expenditure power in just three years , as occurred in ireland between 2004 and 2007 , and in a democracy athletic fiscal surplus , as in ireland ?
in the past , without doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor helmut kohl ) would jointly press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . today , however , france and germany are less unified on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration looks less strong . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion might not work , with the significance of fischer ’s talk at home , that he is the first government minister in office to say so in public , though he pretends to say this in a personal capacity . but the bottom line is that constitutional amendments could come about only through a unanimous agreement , with several of its member governments , starting with the united kingdom , would resist any overtly federalist agenda . as a result , the french government is reluctant to foment a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of a softer compromise in future .
enthusiasts describe this as the new brand of modern industrial policies , which can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong . markets for innovation and new ideas work badly , and governments can help to deal with these market failures . critics refer to it as misguided efforts that create only more distortions and retard growth . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting demands .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances in particular place . those among native populations with the lowest incomes and education levels will always get worse off if they have to compete on a large scale for young male immigrants . but , while the problem may not be “ “ solved , ” understanding that it might help to contain harm rather than least by enabling leaders to evade policies that are either unhelpful or exacerbating tensions .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relations . while i published a 2014 book on co-dependent economic relations with the us and china , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess behavior in national economies . yet the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies sink into a perilous quagmire . in its most basic terms , codependency resides at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s dynamics , at a time when two partners are drawing more from one another than their own inner strength . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of the european union ; in an era of globalization , it is the americans . this is the point that germany is starting to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed , by excluding america , to america as anti-america . but how is this identity to be defined ? comparing and contrasting both sides in the atlantic has a long pedigree . european culture and american commerce , european enterprise profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired of themes .
unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as he was back then . ironically , trump summoned the same same to robert lighthizer , veteran of the japan trade battles of the 1980s , to take the lead on allegations against china . without soaring national saving – highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trading partners . with that trade diversion likely to fly to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers are coming under the functional equivalent of a tax hike . in both episodes , the us has been in denial , bordering on delusion .
while the un security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a crucial legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member . the governments of hollande and prime minister jean-marc ayrault have strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , each giving this rare opportunity to act . indeed , the french center-left must lead by articulating a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project that success much more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing the confidence and faith of the eu , particularly among a young generation . finally , along with the united kingdom ’s ambit among european countries , france maintains a greater global role than germany has yet to gain .
deep reform , focused on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas , is needed to transform the learning process and to unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force requires . a third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to foster regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate , or purposefully minimize , the arab world ’s “ arab solidarity ” . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrate that a profound sense of identity , a shared linguistically , and much shared history bind arabs together , despite massive regional disparities in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else can one explain that a revolt act in tunisia has led to popular revolts in north africa across the arabian peninsula ?
attitudes toward male caregiving begin to shift . america ’s largest tech companies are beginning to compete for top talent by offering a match for paternity leave . only one-third of millennial men believe in traditional gender roles . who has a boss or company that better supports reconciling work and family obligations ? with a more flexible labor market , who has a more flexible job ?
how fast this happens in part depends on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on the government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for missing out on aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investment that boost long-term growth prospects . if public-sector deleveraging is not an overall growth policy – and it is n’t , why is so much here for fiscal austerity and there for so little action ( like lip service ) on growth and employment ? a few possibilities – not mutually exclusive – come to mind . muted wage growth boosts competitiveness , making underutilized labor and capital redeployed .
by contrast , when many individual americans ’ individual situations are probed through european eyes , the extreme individualism that represents a key component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . in fact , journalists report tragic stories of middle-class americans are losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk with little social protection . who will pay for your expensive cancer treatment if you lose the health-insurance policy that came with the job ? it is erroneous to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of welfare state protection makes you stronger . “ cities of tents are filled with those victims of the great economic crisis , ” read one headline last month on the front page of a massachusetts institute of american newspapers .
warsaw : poland has lately experienced a characteristic -- and typically the unfinished business debate . it has focused on whether to make “ free ” education a constitutional right . from their dominance in parliament , the postcommunists ’s intransigence on this point has forced the other political parties participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution to kowtow to theirs . because of their dominance in parliament , the postcommunists ’s intransigence on this point has forced the other political parties , participating in drafting poland ’s ’s ’s new constitution , to kowtow to theirs . a free , or as its postcommunist proponents prefer to call it a " not pay for " education , means educating the public in schools and state-owned universities ( but not at the private school ) .
the private sector also has a role to play in a shift toward unconventional water sources , a role that needs to extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water , and urban greywater , and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized , for example , through public campaign showcasing the benefits of harnessing unconventional water potential . sustainable development goal 6 has called for universal access to clean water and sanitation , and we need to ensure that broader and affordable access to clean water and sanitation . best practices should be clarified , innovations identified and tested , and the knowledge and experience shared . governments also need to clarify the responsibilities of national water agencies and improve water-related capacity at all levels to institute large-scale un-conventional-water programs .
american negotiators are fixated on targeted cuts of about $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . given the scale of america ’s domestic multilateral problem , this is largely a meaningless destination , particularly given the massive , ill-timed , tax cuts and federal spending increases that the american people have enacted during the past six months . as a result , targeting china with enormous political appeal has been missing . so , what could be forged with the may 19 agreement ? beyond the truce in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , together with serious environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class ; and those who have yet to benefit adequately from the region ’s rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . asia needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional , “ south-south ” demand . asia ’s economic links with the west would not be diluted by this shift . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are sustaining rapid economic growth at a lower but still enviable , rate – and improvements of its quality .
berkeley – the central insight from macroeconomics nowadays is the realization in john stuart mill in his first third in the nineteenth century : a large supply-side gap and a requirement of pretty much all currently produced goods and services and types of labor , when there is an equally large excess supply of financial asset demand . a normal supply gap and demand gap for some subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , as it compensates excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as industries suffering from insufficient demand wares , industries benefit from the surplus demand that hire them . the economy is rapidly re-valued by itself , and hence a return to full employment – and does so with the configuration of employment and output in a way that is better adapted to current consumer preferences . and this fundamental fact is a source of great trouble .
last month , however , the army prosecutor accepted colonel budanov 's argument that he was temporarily insane at a time when he was killing a girl and thus acquitted budanov when he charges about his murder . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed a us prosecutor who had apparently been ready to shut down a patriotic " hero , on all his remaining charges . ( a rape trial , for some unclear reason , had already gone out . ) the prosecution then proceeded to talk with a young girl like a chechen sniper , out of the snipers family . originally , russia 's liberals welcomed the budanov case as a sign that the country might address accusations against war crimes in chechnya .
but , of course , the same can not exist in a vacuum . as soon as a team is in place , its members will have to figure out how to making trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – or does – by necessity , not choice , that has been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan must recognize that during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation activities have been distorted , exacerbating wealth inequality . the good news is that the incoming administration may draw on the measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but it has gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional policies that have characterized much of obama ’s eight years in office . actions that address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states took the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked , and when the power of such firms was supposed to be constrained . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation – not just for the u.s. , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill pertaining to the passing of america 's senate does something similar – and long overdue – to the banking sector . prior to the 1890 's , big business was widely thought to be more efficient , and in general more modern than small-business . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms by fewer , large firms as a stabilizing development that rewarded success and allowed for additional productive investment .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down to write a letter ? i do n’t mean either a email or a text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or a personal assistant . no , i mean the old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or a dear hillary ” letter . the reason i ask is that 65,000 people actually write such letters to barack obama each week when he served as president of the united states . judging by a recent feature at the guardian , a white house staffers team would select ten letters per day to pass along with a president who would then react to them personally that evening .
in 1992 , jan major ran for re-election amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of spiraling inflation . today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . they might tell pollsters that they were poised to pay higher taxes for better-functioning public services , and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do just what they have done in each of their previous four elections – a vote for a party that has proclaimed “ every man for himself ” – “ every man for himself . ” economic determinists predicted it would not confront it head-on .
america ’s foreign-policy formation , on the other hand , is heavily constrained by institutions such as congress , the courts , and the us constitution . thus , we would expect less opportunity for transformational leadership . but even the american constitution is ambiguous on the powers of both the congress and the president on foreign policy . transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style seems more likely to emerge in periods of quick and disruptive social and political change . the transformational objectives and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa can have a major impact on outcomes in fluid political contexts , especially in the developing world with weakly structured institutional constraints .
berlin – it was 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the tropical forestry action plan ( redd + ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and a recent international effort to stop it – known as a reduction in emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective . redd + was devised as part of the united nations framework convention on climate change , with the agreement that governs its implementation – that is , expected to be finalized during the un climate change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable result of these two agreements has been , ironically , producing a reams of expensive consultancy collectively . but , if world leaders are serious about halting the forest loss , they should instead relinquish redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
ethiopia , however , poses a dilemma for anyone who cares about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded to the post-election crackdown by devoting temporarily . cutting off aid might have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of 80 million people . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . donald payne , a leading member of the american house foreign affairs committee , and ana gomes , a member of the european parliament from portugal and an eu observation team in the 2005 elections , has sought to tie non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s behavior on press freedom and other human rights .
old age needs to be viewed not simply as an unavoidable stage of life , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and the systems to help people flourish . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research/development efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic conditions like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vital to find ways to stem more effectively their own productivity and independence , by preserving their own physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision . keeping people working longer is critical to maintain them healthy . that is why the health-care industry needs to play a substantial role in efforts to address the challenge of population aging .
the tropical landscapes finance facility , developed in indonesia in cooperation with the united nations environment programme , is a good example . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and social benefits . the second great transition-financing opportunity is in blended finance or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and social benefits . such initiatives bring together a wide range of public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to finance profound environmental and social outcomes projects .
emerging markets were initially tied to this distress only when foreign investors started pulling out of their cash . then panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and the currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporate sectors that had experienced credit booms and were borrowing short and in foreign currencies . now , many emerging markets are at risk of a severe financial crisis . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , have proved to be the most fragile indeed . but even better-performing ones – such as brazil , russia , india , and china – are now at risk of a hard landing .
until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 brexit decision seemed unlikely . almost three years ago , british voters did not seriously know what they were doing when they opted for a narrow majority for leaving the eu . but bercow interventions and the eu have opened an entire new game , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit might not happen . this would foil the financial-market speculators who bet on the withdrawal , and it is good news for both the uk and the eu . and if a new referendum were held , british voters probably would have to decide between an disorderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody would dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative .
beijing – in july forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path toward reform that produced some of the most dramatic economic transformation in history . mao zedong was down two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded down the stamping of his vision for economic development and for modernization on the third plenum of the eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the world economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in the agricultural-based agriculture sector , where a crushing burden of state controls was relaxed . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were given market incentives .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policies , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran – despite being reappointed as a member of the so-called “ “ “ “ axis of evil ” axis – has been catapulted for regional hegemony . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus turned into an open-ended struggle for dominance in the middle east . the result has been the rise of some startling , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , hamas , and the american-backed , shia-dominated iraq are pitted against israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states , all feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . iran might have never achieved this on its own , certainly not in such a short time .
in the postcommunist social revolutions ( less often noted than the political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined and ( at least in poland ) , the church got too much engaged in politics to assist . people were left to withstand gales of change on their own basis . fascination about liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . to be free but on its own is no easy task , particularly at a time when dependence habits are ingrained . old social structures were being destroyed , socialist customs , and habits vanished overnight , former norms , and the unwritten rules were abandoned .
nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse for calling into question the need to continue and complete the eu enlargement process . broadening the eu along the lines of liberty and democracy , ensuring peace , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in every european citizen ’s interest . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse for calling into question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process . we need final and full ratification of the treaty of lisbon to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union we need . extending the eu through freedom and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in every european citizen ’s interest .
its motivation is not difficult to discern : its bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help that maharashtra , india ’s major sugar-producing state , from the upa in the upcoming state assembly elections . this objective explains just as well . a widely cited example of the outgoing government ’s alleged economic mismanagement has been its sugar-pricing policies . powerful pro-state sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upbringing supporters , supposedly drove the government to repair extravagant prices and write off its sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production . instead of ruling out this system , as expected , modi ’s government augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , ratcheted up its imports to discourage foreign competition , raising a sugar-based ethanol rate that must blended gasoline .
berlin – the german social democrats ( spd ) ’s existential crisis can no longer be treated as a typical party crisis . the party has captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in regional elections in bavaria this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in the national front ’s opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will still lose more of its support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have taken a stand as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but with the spd in decline , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a largely multiparty system in which no single party plays the dominant role .
to accomplish this end , russia needs to create a secure and attractive investment climate . most importantly , if we are to turn back capital flight , the government must persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and drop it on demand . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment for as long as ordinary russians retain their savings , say , $ 50 billion , according to most estimates , at home ? while russia will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning has been clear : it would be better for all sides if that money were brought home and invested in the national economy . there is also the russian people need to be persuaded of the country ’s political stability -- that nobody , for example , suggests nationalization , just during the eight months that i was prime minister .
their commitment to the injustices of the kurdish communist regime is for me one of the best chapters in german history . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 would never have been possible . for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in eastern germany took heart and stopped feeling their way out of their repressive regime . they realized that the realities of eastern germany were not fixed in stone after all ; that a change made possible by many of the brave dissidents and proponents of the civil rights imprisoned behind the wall had demanded for so long . the opening of hungary ’s borders that autarky and the seek refuge by east german citizens at prague ’s german embassies and warsaw has already shaken the communist and stasi rule to its foundations .
responsibility-sharing , the modern international system ’s protection of refugees , has been replaced with a study of responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least capable of coping . as a result , some , if comparatively speaking , do not give a lot of it , committed to long and often perilous journeys to the developed world . it is time to reboot the global effort to protect refugees . and yet , by arriving at the rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome that they receive has become increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over supposedly massive influxes of “ hostile ” outsiders closes the room for humane , pragmatic response . what is needed are a comprehensive strategy with the global community , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , the aid community , business community , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and arts .
munich – the euro crisis has gone through a series of six phases so far . it ’s worth recalling them because it shows how policymakers stumbled along , trying to square the fires , without keeping their eyes on where their chosen path led them . by now , markets remain calm , only the start of the seventh phase of a crisis , during which europe would become mired in debt . the seventh phase of the crisis is one of strengthened moral hazard , stemming from the run-up to the debt . the sequence , so far , has been as follows :
from 1985 to 2005 , the boomsters made ten-year projections that greatly overstated the odds of significantly positive changes in both financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( for example , tranquility in the middle east , and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . over the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the odds of negative changes in all the same places where the boomsters accentuated positive , plus a few more ( i still await the approaching disintegration of canada , nigeria , indonesia , south africa , belgium , switzerland , and sudan ) . they assigned the probabilities of 70 % to bleak scenarios that materialized just 12 % in a while . second , again , as skeptics warn , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for becoming wrong . they assigned the probabilities of 65 % to rosy scenarios that materialized just 15 % from time .
it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member , or simply at the wto . france , for its part , would be overwhelming the economic challenges of the brexit process . exit from the campaign ’s principal economic argument – that britain ’s ’s ’s enormous trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from the breakdown in commercial relations that it is flatly mistaken . britain would have to negotiate an approach to the european single market on its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy practically unfettered eu rights in order to sell whatever they wanted in britain under the rules of the world trade organization . margaret thatcher was first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services – not only finance , but also law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so forth – makes eu membership critical to the single market .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence and elucicidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for this , understanding of the historical context of the current crisis is crucial . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system of secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the military ’s power and the bureaucracy to supervise an elected government . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their adherents to assume positions in the bureaucracy and the military . indeed , the turkish military , with the ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s support , intervened explicitly for the functioning of civilian government in the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of defending secularism .
berlin – during the prolonged night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union is breaking with it . on the surface , the negotiations were on averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what stood in stake was the role in the europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country . what changed that evening was the germany that europeans knew since the end of world war ii . europeans have since lived in a very different sort .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises severe concerns , not least because arab-led military interventions are doing so , compared to those carried out by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . despite the use of the banned chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – a first in the intra-arab conflict – egypt failed to achieve its aims . by late 1965 , egyptian president goodluck jonathan sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against the royalist forces . such interventions were typically intended to galvanize a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing a post-war-resolution mechanism .
today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” beps was undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational corporations . it has initiated , for example , sharing among country-by-country tax authorities to report on these companies ’ ’ profits and tax payments . unfortunately , however , this norm will apply only to very large multinational corporations , and reports will not publicly be available , depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency . the reform process was brought about by oecd countries , opening itself to developing countries only after that initial package was unveiled .
likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would broaden the tax base and discourage over-reliance on debt finance , doing so would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . reducing the tax preferences of non-woman-owned business entities ( like partnerships ) that pass their income through to their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base subject to the corporate-income tax system . pass-through firms now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest proportion in the developed world ) . several of these entities are highly leveraged and cost-effective , and enjoy the same statutory advantage as corporations have . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the tax base enough to finance a rate cut to 28 % .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents its evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . but simultaneously , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to abide by existing arrangements that cover most aspects of security and civilian rule . this means that the israeli military will continue its way into gaza at will and maintain control over borders crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the land strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . such conditions exclude any possibility of forging a security plan that would obtain the support of all factions , including hamas .
nearly 60 years later , annual agricultural employment in the u.s. peaked at just 53 % of total employment . nowadays , it is less than 3 % , and the rate is less than 3 % . in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of government employment has declined by more than 20 % . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has exceeded 10 % . indeed , since as recently as 1980 , most oecd countries have experienced great declines in agricultural employment .
islamabad -- like pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope it will usher in an era of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy for the government . the upcoming elections , to be held under the irish provisional constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency held on november 3 , is a case in point ; it is one that my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . to be sure , contesting elections would leave my party with a substantial opportunity to take matters into their people . in fact , there has been increasing support for my party , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in the frontier province , and that it gains ground in any second province . but occasionally , the country ’s democracy is best served by refusing to participate .
just like bernanke and others like bernanke and others want otherwise – and just as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others ’ behalf , central banks lack the proper tools to deal with an component of the same unemployment crisis that resulted from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix the debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . and it bodes well for the official sector to buy time for joblessness . yet , sadly , this shift will not solve the problem that eats away at the social fabric of any particular society . the best that central banks can do is buy time , albeit at an elevated cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
most of china ’s internationally shared waterresources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950 ’s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new hub of the south china sea dam building . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . in fact , china ’s dam builders are focused on most of the international rivers that originate in chinese soil space . moreover , china recently cut off the flow of the brahmaputra river , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , to build dams as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was critical in preventing the so-called great recession from turning out even worse than it would have been . back then , it was the global financial system that tottering . much on its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii . nowadays , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well .
other public services improved just as well , and their parents believed that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations were . they were not happy when , in the 1970s , their elders became communists strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father . but this was not a farfetched transformation in a city where people were assuming new identity , such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist , downplayed their regional and tribal origins . it was almost certainly true of my parents who had sacrificed much to educate their nine children . on the contrary , schools were multiplying as attendance strengthens .
this results from high turnover , owing to overwork and the heightened need for foreign health-care workers to fill in sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often a thorny political question . and now , policymakers must devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , by ensuring that it is properly educated and trained for the challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc national health systems today do not focus nearly enough on innovation or the schemes that are thinking of improving efficiency and effectiveness .
the decisive moment came , when de gaulle , in military uniform , traveled on television to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium . “ well , my dear and the old country here we ’re facing a heavy test , ” he said . if a state bowed out before the challenge it faced , “ france would be no more than a poor , broken transplanting on an ocean of insecurity , ” he warned . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , he called on the military to reject even passive associations with an insurgency , and put it in order to re-establish public order . if the military crumbled , so is algeria [ and ] france .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study at the asian universities , in order to discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about their future − which might well cause them to reflect on why their young iranians do not share this optimism . what we are aware with certainty is that the regime is divided . indeed , such divisions will allow the new forces to emerge in iranian society at all levels . so all means that they might be found to reach out to iranian society at every level . just as the world has reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was just an instrument of supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , to appoint a vice president against khamenei ’s wish ( though he later retracted his appointment ) .
common financing , with every set of members paying a share according to their gdp , is one instrument that can be used to achieve more equitable burden-sharing . over what time period , do you make your own calculations ? traditionally , nato invoked a policy of “ expenses lie where they fall ” : each member picked up all the cost of the operational contribution that it made to the alliance ’s operation . during the last few years , nato ’s ’s ’s ’s funding policies were updated to enable common funding to be used as a spur to providing some theater-level power enabling capabilities such as medical facilities , aerial airports handling troops and supplies , or intelligence services . how , then , can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry management against critical enablers like helicopter or air-to-air refueling tankers ?
meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by a debt headwinds , yet another result of easy monetary conditions . given these conditions , continued to insist on monetary easing seems particularly ill-advised . moreover , one might argue that easy money alone has contributed to the unexpectedly strong deflationary forces seen in recent years . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” firms proliferated . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of the past year , the regime — once central to america ’s strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable , which drops powerful hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even for saudi oil . although the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is seen as arising directly from fundamentalist wahhabi teachings that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . thus , among the bad set of possibilities , the least bad seems to involve cooperation with america . yet cooperation with the us might not gain the al-sauds much , because saudi relations with america are strained to a breaking point .
others disagree , arguing that mind can protect itself by banishing memory of trauma from awareness , making it hard for victims to remember their most horrific experiences , until it is safe to do so many years later . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ the traumatic dissociative amnesia ” abandons a large minority of victims can not recall their trauma , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing human psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists assume that combating , rape , and other terrifying experiences are seemingly reengraved around the mind , never forgotten . but those clinical trauma theorists would not argue that “ repressed ” or dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benevolent .
in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game my young friends , we would allow new kid in front of one another , but only after a whispering in each other ’s ears the words , elé belé belé . an elé belé is a player who thinks he is participating , in truth , just go through the motions . everybody knew that the goal , scored in it , is not the real goal . in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game that my young friends were playing , we would allow a new kid in our own , but only after a whispers to each other ’s ears the words , elé belé belé .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for instance , argued that america ’s economy is bound to slow , because today ’s technological innovations do not spur growth to the degree that it has in the past . the financial times ’ financial times ’ all-world index rose by almost 22 % in 2017 , its best performance since the post-crisis rebound in 2009 . as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some warnings that much of the recent years seem to have become obsolete . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers got much attention for his argument that the world risks a sliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” because the interest rate needed to induce desired investment in line with prospective saving has been below zero . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer looks like the binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one of which concerns debt levels .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , more hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect natural flows of any particular river , or divest of cross-border water flows . but even the joint expert-level mechanism , established in 2007 , merely to “ interaction and collaboration ” on hydrological data , has proved to have little merit . in fact , in 2013 , china was damming most of the international rivers stretching from tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already threatened by global warming . the only rivers to which no hydro-engineering works have so far been the indus , whose basin falls mostly in india and pakistan , as well as the salween that flows toward burma and thailand . local authorities in yunnan province , however , they are considering damming the salween in the quake-prone upstream region .
finally , currency chaos is the safest bet for everyone , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates worldwide . in the end , china ’s ’s ’s rapid growth will have to translate a large upward climb in its currency , its domestic price level , or both . as for china ’s renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . perhaps , but most students in the country ’s monetary policy view quantitative easing as the textbook policy of pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of persistent deflation , which would exacerbate the debt burden . but , in 2011 , most equilibration will probably take place via inflation .
with an america distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , in particular , an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are the best policy candidates . moreover , they have proven their shared desire to uphold the current asian order . without such cooperation , china ’s aspirations would merely be constrained by domestic factors , such as a faltering us economy , rising social discontent , worsening environmental crises , or vicious politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? both india and japan are longstanding players in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations on the values that america espouses , like the us ’s need to maintain a stable power balance , respect a territorial and maritime status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation .
moreover , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements must be established for adaptation , funding , and technology transfer . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their obligations under the convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to respond effectively to climate change . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the climate-change challenge . but because tackling climate change poses a more far-reaching – and serious – challenge , the world must not waver – in its determination and commitment to addressing it . as part of sustainable development , as well as measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in finance , technology and capacity-building , are taking nationally appropriate mitigation actions .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of the us-led international financial order , with no leadership or direction . kim would join a private equity firm where he believes that he can “ make the biggest impact on major global issues like climate change . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds that wo n’t be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over every time they mature . that is arguably what the bank of japan ( boj ) is currently doing . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has stated in a speech that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option . nonetheless , he has launched a policy of replacing government bonds on the boj ’s balance sheet once they mature , steadily increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley , brad delong and former american federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offers a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia and rage at gop elites . media outlets provided just as much of the $ 2 billion price for freedom , thereby helping it catch and hold its leads in the polls , as well as with most primaries . trump ’s pivotal supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . his supporters resemble “ tea partiers ” : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and whites . in fact , his blue-collar voters , an average annual income of roughly $ 72,000 , fits well over america ’s median household of $ 56,000 .
according to the tale , descartes had so struck the grief that he had forged an automaton , a mechanized doll , built up to appear identical to his dead daughter . once a group of people is viewed with naughty , the attention shifts away from them as a friend of morality . they become soulless bodies , and the moral circle closes in order to exclude them . our reaction to the soulless bodies is well illustrated in a story telling descartes after his death . it was known that descartes had an illegitimate daughter , a linguine , who died when she was just five years old .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim at destroying peace and stability in our country . if those bombing are to send a message , i will sweep it off and crush it under my legs . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate the nervous reaction in restricting the democratic right to use it . in fact , we wo n’t change our course , and we wo n’t be able to “ change our situation . we wo n’t change our course again .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who are in no position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . mousavi must move carefully through his legal campaign , without endangering the trust that he has earned from most iranians . if khamenei keep fast , mousavi can not gain the presidency , but he will continue to represent voters ’ hopes , who differ dramatically with his administration . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be shaken . he has to stand with his two principal demands : foreseeing the elections and establishing the impartial committee to govern from governmental violations of the electoral code .
but even if yanukovych did think primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal self-enrichment was irrational . at the time , imagine that he had stopped asking himself what would make him happier . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to help his people , and this should have been yanukovych ’s top priority . imagine that , with this very question in mind , he equated with an alternative to the mercurial lifestyle ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on a substantial salary to which he was right while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s lives . there is also something even more fundamental than one of his writings .
two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for a peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) – which is officially part of the korean workers ’ party – denounced a south korean puppet force in serious violation of its north-south joint declaration and pushing north-south ties to the worst catastrophe . indeed , the incheon visit comes within a mixed set of messages . it remains to be seen whether it is trying to reengage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats really are just throwing a good face forward to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-short and human-rights violator . on the day of incheon visit , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us know well : “ lurking behind this is the ulterior design of an american [ form of prod more ] zealously the south korean puppet force into escalating through the dprk in a wish to strain on the extreme pitch and rashid [ a ] second korean war . ” north korea has been far less forthcoming on its own intentions , either .
yes , humans do specialize , and they should specialize . but specialization at the individual level actually tends to encourage higher diversification . everyone benefits from each of us becoming good at different things and exchanging our knowhow on others . it is not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer . when the idea is both intuitively true and actually false , it is often because it is true on a single level but not on the level where it is practiced .
gene-drive organisms have been directed to spread indefinitely , and mosquitoes , particularly in females , can surf air currents at the relatively high rate of altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) where winds can blow them hundreds of kilometers . by contrast , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to stop until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been wholly informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to informed consent reflected in its own rhetoric , which eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ ” ” ” ” and “ community acceptance . that choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders were already making the choice to pursue the release.reinforcing this conclusion , following the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) and in a public-health context . that means consent would have to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align feature : center ; } for being limited only ; get unlimited access to toon point ; and ps archive , plus our annual journal , for just $ 75 . civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages of the test-site villages have also not been properly consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people were n’t engaged
many more have simply become discouraged , dropping out of the labor force altogether : not at school , rather than working , not looking for work . across sub-saharan africa , the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s labor markets are now interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us have found themselves in effect compete with young chinese and indians for jobs . they do n’t protest much , but many end up in prison terms . in fact , china ’s underpayment , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the norm for competitiveness globally .
but the weakening of the rule of law is not just domestic in hungary or poland . article 7 of the lisbon treaty provides for the suspension of a rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option , ” ” ” ” ” ” requires a unanimous vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never be used . indeed , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves a rule-making of interests by all but guaranteeing against sanctions . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian goals – and with eu funds to boot .
in iraq , bush once again pursued a unilateralist agenda stating that there was incontrovertible evidence of links with al qaeda and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lay . detection technology made it clear that iraq did not have nuclear weapons , as the chief un inspector hans blix emphasized . it is possible that bush read those messages but that they were beyond his own comprehension . moreover , he may not believe what he read .
all of these groups are driven by nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . returnees are present in many other asian countries , as well as from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . unfortunately , as sri lanka bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , the defeat of isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , because battle-hardened fighters with operating training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . like osama bin laden and al-qaeda leaders , who cut their teeth in the us-backed war against the former soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia , the middle east , and the west for years to come . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how obscure local groups could carry sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , harness military-grade explosives .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new movie , “ in the land of blood and honey , ” speaks of the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . already , the movie has championed two awards , and is an emerging box-office success , attesting for enduring interest – and perhaps mystique – that the balkan presence for international audiences , which were horrified as they confounded off events in the 1990 ’s . for those of us who have lived and worked in the region during this turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . as jolie ’s film makes this plain , neither the international community nor local leaders has made a concerted effort to prevent the bloodshed . one exception , perhaps the only exception – kiro gligorov , the president of macedonia , who died attempting his slumber on a new year ’s day , at an age of 94 .
there is considerable evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . in addition to shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also start to reallocate jobs . and this process will likely accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to push through her proposed exit deal through may ’s government . in addition , this trend accentuates the challenges associated with weak productivity growth . there are also signs that uk-based firms have begun to trigger its brexit contingency plans after prolonged waiting times , schedule , and much more waiting .
he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but he also supports national and european-level decision-making where that is appropriate ; the key is that processes should be flexible , thereby enabling citizen participation . and he views globalization as good , but he understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby transforming its own citizens . in fact , opinion polls are currently bouncing wildly , owing to the fillon scandal and the surge in support for le pen among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . but if macron qualifies for the second-round run-off , he will pose a greater threat to le pen than the outright leftist candidate would .
an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists throughout europe , as was evident in the collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on this enormous potential to create a rationale for world solidarity . this is not a matter of nostalgia for past glory , but of course . the european project is a realist reaction to globalization and challenge its challenges . it was launched to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and a european social model . having achieved those goals , europeans now want to make a positive contribution to world developments .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did n’t one see this coming ? ” theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ “ “ “ data collection . ” krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . while that was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did n’t demand that they reconsider their theory . they had , instead , “ overlooked ” critical institutional changes in the financial system .
one aspect of this difference is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions , such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be too startling . after all , liberalism in eastern europe , for example , is western import . notwithstanding the trump and brexit phenomena , the us and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans are more prone to containing more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is more focused on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in vastly different european ’s political landscape , the left is either very weak or totally absent from the political mainstream .
nowadays , most forecasters put the region ’s growth potential at about 1 % . unless germany can shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will most likely turn out to be just correct . yet that is a big “ if , ” ” if only it is . yet while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output growth , the country ’s service sector remains strong . as for the eurozone , we appear to have been far too optimistic , though we foresaw a drop in potential growth to at least 1.5 % .
in any case , the eu ’s own practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey ’s accession bid . immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s working-age workers would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , perhaps not even before 2025 . given the predicted upswing in turkey ’s economy and its declining birthrate , experts predict a figure of some 2.7 million migrants by pointing out . the size of these remittances , though , would depend on eu financial policies in admission , the outcome of eu accession negotiations , and economic developments in turkey .
just as whites attribute extraordinary sexual powers to black males , the christian west ’s instinct is to treat jews as the masters of extraordinary powers -- including the power to kill deities and control world finance . the later evangelist john concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah they need to be the “ sons of the devil . ” matthew then attributes the jews a recurrent lie , explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night , and stealing him while we are sleeping . ” more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews , those who refused to embrace jesus as their messiah , as the perpetrators of a criminal group living on each generation . matthew then attributes the jews with a recurrent lie , explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ its bloodples have come at night , stealing it while we have become your own children . ”
but , with overly macho , excessively partisan politics , and provincialism , reform never happened . thailand ’s decision last may to lower interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against bhat , the opening salvo in a crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on the scattering of speculators and missing out . by the time crisis arrived , thailand looked like every one of the others turning into desperation for the imf . so the notion that “ this country is different , ” ” which the rules of global finance did not apply , has proven utter nonsense .
it was not least thanks to efforts by the protest movements that france has now made concessions on both of these counts . that is a task upon which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are ill equipped : they can arouse the public conscience but can not commit governments formally . so the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of governments , has arrived . but how can those concessions be made , given under the duress , be secured ? only other governments are capable of doing that .
as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ greater learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest . not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . at the same time , the majority of russia ’s population now will not become well-informed overnight . yet , as the regime is obliged to dedicate more funds to silencing the informed , its majority will suffer economically . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are growing .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet implicit in their promise not to manipulate a currency over strategic ends is their ability to do so , if it is so desired . china ’s exchange-rate policy came at the fore , now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a number of chinese goods . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should take its bluff .
my professional focus is on economics , so i emphasized the role of growth . but that obviously is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . in the us , for example , foreign-born share of the population has risen from more than 5 % in 1960 to about 14 % today . better yet , other than contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , immigrants also often complement native-born skills , helping them to earn more . turning up developed countries culturally is also matters .
that shift , in turn , clears the path for a generational leadership change , and , more important , a transition to post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the columbia university student movement in the 1980 ’s , and one of the central organizers of the first intifada , the resulting deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to long prison terms on charges that led to the second intifada that began two years earlier and ordered some of its military strikes . the plo ’s old guard , with men like yasser arafat and abbas leading the liberation organization from exile , returning home with the oslo accords , dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . after abandoning the scene , palestinian leaders born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons are most likely to fill the vacuum .
this will n’t be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of its bureaucracy and security apparatus . these are the key ingredients in a nationalistic stew that seems to appeal to russians nowadays . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely conscious of the dangers it poses to populist nationalists . it is likely that the regime will seek to counter this eruption of nationalism , while upholding its powerful statist rhetoric . but , in defeating the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand on more or less liberal , ideological grounds .
today , coal and natural gas delivers more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . that new load would easily replace the electricity generated by the country ’s ’s six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is being perpetrated equally . last year in response to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . tsai has hailed the share of renewables ’ share of renewables over the next eight years , with capacity coming primarily from solar and offshore wind .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on coal-derived oil fuel . henry ford once scouted florida in the hope of buying the tracts of land to plant sugar cane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels , or an dependency implicit in importing oil , to produce gasoline . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained its original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency of which ford has warned . the pioneers of biofuels would most likely wonder how little they are contributing to global utility supplies today . as the production of these fuels grows , so will the policies , programs , and capacities that ensure that they are being used sustainably without distorting food markets or compromising food security , which will always be the first priority .
liberals and radicals organized traveling shows , color posters , and political entertainment . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a little more than a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , rather than just their rational interest in greater wealth and cheap foods . still others fanned the flames of an anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany like the barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , a future prime minister , told audiences that they feared much about germans ’ sausage than they were of a german navy . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the cost of tariff on ordinary consumers . many british citizens believed in a “ free trade empire . ”
the inordinately lax regulatory environment has turned lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . when the housing bubble bursts , it has left in its wake woefully expensive economies losing their competitiveness . its effort to establish the european equivalent of the dollar and impose a fiscal union atop it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail . it will turn member countries into debtors and creditors alike , stoking even more animosity . europeans should now use the calm between the storm fronts to reevaluate the european currency union from the ground up .
indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming era of floating exchange rates . rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they are able to push their exports aggressively . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened . a hits by chinese exports are likely to take as a result of the region ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s currency depreciations are rendered , nevertheless unlikely to be felt instantly .
operationally , it is limited to isr , and it does not involve ground troops . moreover , there are real disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses for american interests . for europe , this situation is worrying two counts . the following from above , therefore , has operational and symbolic significance . symbolically , it means backing the initial and significant efforts that others have made .
on the contrary , at a time when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households but by institutional institutions , such as pension funds , they can be fixed and taxed . this has mostly been the case in europe . even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines spirited their assets out of the country and thus out of the government ’s way , while poor argentines refuse to make the taxes needed to pander to the claims of foreign creditors . the private sector had large foreign assets , while the government had approximately the same amount of foreign liabilities . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” that are to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chubais , and milan are household names . but exposure to foreign television channels also means that a growing number of disillusioned algerians are searching for refugees in italy , france , or germany as their only hope for employment and a decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reform be introduced to ensure the country ’s equitable distribution of its oil and gas riches ? disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of soccer .
it is not yet clear what led greenspan to endorse the tax cut . was this massive economic misjudgment or currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is the combination of the two , for he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy that calls for tax cuts to be used to bring down revenues , thereby forcing the public sector to become grossly distorted . lower interest rates worked , though not so much , because they boosted investment , but because they drove households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a bubble in housing prices . in short , like greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened by high household and government-backed debt and fragile balance sheets , a legacy that already contributes to global financial instability .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflict over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . and the food insecurity that has been diffused from land mismanagement is vital to driving migrants into europe . land-related issues will continue to jeopardize global stability , particularly if the effects of climate change worsen existing problems .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute a much larger per capita carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay back much more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they put in . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income polluters , all while cutting carbon dioxide emissions . on its own account , this would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that could well invite a one-yellow vest reaction . but do n’t let someone tell that it is a silver bullet .
this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist – there is little evidence of that . by contrast , she supports an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with a strong currency and counter inflationary monetary policy . rather , she simply understands that for an economy in need of competitive , bad-mouthing the euro and the ecb are sending the wrong signals . an additional lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership in much the same way , accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel does n’t make speeches that attack a strong euro and the european central bank ’s price-stability mandate .
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it concerns the rule of law , the degree of integration , and peaceful reconciliation of the member states of their own interests . germany is currently well on the same footing as every other state with respect to security . and the eu is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it concerns the rule of law , the forces of integration , and the peaceful reconciliation of the member states of their own interests . owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s strong perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union .
but , so far , critics have found it hard to demonstrate the memory or some of the other cognitive problems that confront ect beyond three months . indeed , very few of those receiving ect do n’t also receive benzodiazepines , who do cause major autobiographical memory problems when it suits themselves and antipsychotic drugs , which create difficulties in the lists of names or telephone items , and other comparable issues . there is no dispute that ect might lead to a short-term loss of memory . nor can it tolerate autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists readily for ect , because ect is rarely given on its own merit . the same is , after all , true in the case of anti-depressant drugs .
but no government has found cacs adequate to oppose domestic restructuring . if they were , there would be no need for a domestic bankruptcy law that spells out issues like precedence and fair treatment . so why should we think that they would be suffice in a far more complex world of witnessed sovereign-debt restructurings ? in particular , cacs suffer from the doomsday problem . if a cac required , say , 75 % of holders of every bond class , the vultures could purchase 26 % of only one bond class , blocking the entire restructuring .
the eu should reinforce the case for open dialogue and tough bargaining – precisely what has long been lacking in western policy concerning the ukraine crisis and the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . holding talks within the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require deep political capital investment to continue for a sustained period . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . a quick deal will be a solution . we arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantage and eschewing negotiated compromises .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly , until the 1830s , when a new pact – involving federal programs , public-works projects , and financial-reform and regulation – took place in response to the great depression . in contrast to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historic experience instilled in its citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . america ’s federal government expanded yet again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by a new deal favoring unionization and home ownership ) . the us government assumed a greater role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security .
isis has so far hit france and turkey hardest . abdelhamid abdelhamid abaaoud , who was leading the attacks in paris in november , has claimed that it is one of the 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . france has now suffered more than 230 fatalities and about 700 injuries , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and roughly 900 injuries . isis has allegedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving city guerilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , security agencies , and forgery . the precise number of european fighters who have received training from isis and returned home remains unknown .
in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which is key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) , and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . to account for the learning crisis in a wide range of developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . women account for just over a third of all teachers on afghan primary and secondary-school enrollment , in part owing to ultra-low female literacy . fortunately , the afghan government has started to unlock its doors to innovative ngo models such as brac ’s community-based education program . yet a shortage of qualified female teachers is making scaling up such efforts difficult to impossible .
and protesters fueled by economic grievances emboldened the improvement in broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-power of war in syria . as a result , capital and skills were misallocated , the entrepreneurial climate has deteriorated and competition , innovation , and growth has suffered . these economic shocks have exposed the massive costs of each country ’s sectarian-based political system . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s ’s allies and clients , rather than benefiting the entire population . by dominating every country in the private sector through cronyism , these regimes not only to extract and even distribute client rents , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that might fund opposition movements .
this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union , or at the very least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( whose maastricht deficit liabilities are too easily breached ) . to that we must add up to coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies , because deposits flow rapidly across borders , in response to national guarantees and pan-european insurance schemes . but reduced flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test this . in fact , will the euro ’s second decade be as successful as the first ? at present , boldly highlighting the mismatch , even discordant , fiscal reactions now embraced by european governments .
but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected a legion of contributors . such a world was only a dream a decade ago , and we were we still told ourselves . today , pluto remains on the planets ’ list in science textbooks , and who knows how long it takes to take for it to remove it . today , language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children with their homework , because texts go to the english alone . but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected a legion of contributors .
one powerful school of thought , which emerged nearly as the killings began in 1989 , is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . by provoking the regime , the students derailed any chance of a slow political reform that their more moderate elders had carefully set in train . it was supposed to be clear to them that a violent crackdown was unavoidable . if only they could possibly take place in china , as seems likely . indeed , so proponents of this school often add , too , that china was not yet ready for democracy .
yet international donors are dragging their feet both in meeting existing commitments and new ones . it ’s too late now for the non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , even though the security council ’s threat to the international criminal court prosecution for atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what of the military/response options still strongly favored a number of policymakers and pundits ? delivery issues abound across war zones , but not everywhere . and all the support around the world will n’t stop the killing .
for example , when trump urges reducing american military involvement in the middle east , he berates merely obama . yet by reneging on a nuclear deal with iran , trump has forged a war in the region that is more likely . trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically steering them toward arms . and , by walking away with his ways to alleviate north korea ’s international isolation while getting almost nothing in return , trump has strengthened china ’s position in east asia .
every country could create a council representing the public entities ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce the cost of logistics . it is just as vital , though , for the committees to develop similar lines in every country ’s provincial region . merchandise communication becomes vitally important to achieve any real improvement . merchandise needs to pass through the capital , as it is doing in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the associated cost increases . for example , regions can already be turned into growth engines .
but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient , resilient financial markets might turn out to be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . the idea of a temporary exit from the euro is especially ill-advised . just as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can become fragile and collapse , imposing high costs on society . the fdp ’s ideas have wide support in germany and across german economists ( and are shared by countless other european economists ) . and they are consistent with positions taken by germany ’s federal finance ministry under its previous government .
will it return to robust growth , or will the us have an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i cast my vote for the former leadership , especially given that the outsize debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is demanded . many wall street financiers , having gotten their gobs of cash , are returning to their fiscal religion of low deficits . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , the us will experience a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy so far means more bankruptcies , which pushes up stock prices and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weaken banks . the role of consumption and investment in the us will be cut back further .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity for improving human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . yes , there are costs to freer trade that must be better addressed ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in the poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yet , nowadays , the mood has turned on free trade .
when muslims form a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions ; but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . nevertheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like the majority of muslims worldwide , exhibit an “ us versus them ” mentality . whatever ethnic and other divisions there is at stake , the “ us versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps the zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are largely secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with driving growth ” only “ serves as an excuse for doing nothing ” about health , education , or redistribution . “ we forget that for many centuries the growth of growth was basically zero , ” he writes . piketty sees this as grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” piketty sees it as grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” only “ serves as an excuse for doing nothing with health , education , or redistribution . ”
as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor in the pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . ” this language represents a sharply strong departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . the next year will thus be critical . europeans , too , are right to worry about economic issues .
center-leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – might reappoint powell , who has done a good job , or elect a moderate democratic economist like former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s ’s fascination with risky fantasies that promote massive amounts of fed-funded debt . a final question to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as america ’s next chair . trump – who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing overly little monetary-policy easing – would probably select a dovish candidate . though more often than not , democratic house democrats have criticized trump ’s approach , they are n’t proposing further trade liberalization .
in charles savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo “ uprising , ” the new york times credulously reproduced a “ arsenal for the fact that gitmo officials showed reporters in their video still . ” other recent “ terror ” – related reporting has been just as flimsy . the boston globe , for example , ran an article of the man – designated behind only his first name , danny – whom the brothers carjacked three days after the attack . daoud argued that the naira ’s only word of the conversation that it understood was “ manhattan , ” and that the terrorists debated him whether his car could just leave the state of england , say , to get to new york . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citibank – but suggested a lot , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable reports targeted by new york .
this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” and it strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction measures are in greater need , and will have a bigger impact . at the same time , those gains have not been equitably distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and a recently released by the international institute for food policy research , examines the worldwide economic contraction starting in 2012 against rural populations . it finds that , due to the downturn , 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than probably would otherwise have , with farm households in middle-income countries particularly at risk . rural areas of ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
such policies might then have been entirely subjugated to demands for the gold standard and free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise had been enlarged , the working class had organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals would have begun to compete with ( and overwhelm ) external regulations and constraints . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold throughout the interwar period . its attempt to re-constitute pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose a domestic reflation through the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods scheme kept that lesson in mind when redesigned the world monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc , more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture , a significant symbolic defeat . yet the region ’s female farmers are often reap a meager harvests not because of inclement weather or poor soils , but because of their gender – or , more precisely , because of a dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that place them at a severe disadvantage . and that shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur a all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulty in retooling and retraining workers , particularly the unemployed young . beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that is filling the television screens and front pages of newspaper pages are a imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . after all , a significant share of the incoming refugee population is said to have an educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . though there are today ’s pockets of high unemployment , the ratio of workers to the elderly will decline considerably in the longer term . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders – including ceo of daimler-benz – have already recognized , open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration may help to alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems .
with digital commerce having estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers will grow . and if access to a wide range of rewarding benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , it will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . for example , if an independent worker drives a single hour on uber and walks a dog on rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount to its or its benefits . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of user benefits and responsibilities for employers . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , and eventually acquire a safety net like if a full-time employee contracted .
british policymakers must also move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more effective and reliable protection systems . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more effective , reliable protection systems . implementing ( and financing ) initiatives like these will require the sustained political will to take action . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable peasant insurance or produce some kind of mutual-assistance scheme . for starters , they must take steps to safeguard the rural environment , ensure animal-welfare schemes and improve education , knowledge transfer , and entrepreneurial training for both farmers and farming .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risk-off experiment . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer explainable via fundamental economic data . key interest rates have remained near zero for the next six years now . the unintended consequences of a policy become increasingly visible will become increasingly tangible with the united states federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 ultra-loose us monetary policy . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , and monetary policy is a sign of rapid growth .
designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . it is easy to forget that years ago , a telephones no longer needed to pick a buttons or dial one was forced to pick up a handset handset handset and ask a operator to make a link . we saw hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that lets gestural finger motions ; but in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users could barely recognize the matter of their own . after the improvement in a computer interface , form is a key consideration . after all , designs have been inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction .
like plato tells us , prometheus ’s ’s name means “ foresight , ” because it has always been looked ahead , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus was charmed by pandora and heedlessly welcomed her life . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid in the other part of the year , prometheus tried to warn its brother not to accept zeus a threatening gift . only later , however , did it come to recognize its terrible mistake . indeed , it is still not the entire story , but it is .
the crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new and much simpler method of taking majority votes in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu nice summit , if each member country runs a certain number of votes , on average , for populations weighted , yet small countries are protected by having proportionally larger votes than the big countries . indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate cause of a breakup , when the examined closely , is not really all that serious . this system is well known as a qualified majority voting with a majority of the common vote . this system is known as a qualified majority vote .
rome – the prices of many staple foods increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , are creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , reached their highest levels in the last 30 years , causing political and economic instability – and triggering food riots in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , heavy demand for crop diseases from the bio-fuels sector , falling global food stockpiles , and lower cereal output . while these factors undoubtedly placed the upward pressure on food prices , they themselves can not explain steep price hikes . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures such as export restrictions .
indeed , turkey offered logistical support to the islamic state even as it allowed the group ’s murderous members to massacre tens of thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . erdoğan ’s ambition to re-establish turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving it toward collude with this challenge to the western-devised regional order . this highlights another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . in a video produced after fighting for the mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ sykes-picot end , ” a group that proclaimed the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map . the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring .
since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown . so far , he has refrained from asserting outright that these markets act at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( their architects , many turkish islamists , believe , in the 1908 young turkish revolution , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear a dog whistle behind his condemnations of finance forces , forces that now seem to demand higher interest rates . one should never forget , then , that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist , “ birther ” argument , which claimed that then-president barack obama was not born in america , and thus did not qualify for the office he held . but perhaps no current leader , then , is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and would-be authoritarian , donald trump .
the us is also doing its best to ensure that ukraine is becoming more attractive to foreign investors . indeed , ten leading international energy companies will participate in the privatization of the first group of companies . in the energy sector , we are privatized of state-owned energy maker for the second time . so , in order to ensure the complete transparency of the tender , and the elimination of problems experienced in the recent past , western advisers are aiding us . for our intent , the major western energy firms with this experience as strategic investors .
to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( though they later adjusted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policies ( encouraged like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for a return to government intervention ) . in japan , the postal services authority that had been privatized must be renationalized , and the role of government finance is being enhanced . even so , chinese policy choices have significantly influenced other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model has now mimicked elsewhere in the region . japan ’s air lines , in near-bankrupt fashion , have rescued the government bailout , an instrument that seems increasingly common .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . but at least europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . without the ecb ’s stated commitment since 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would be a persistent risk to the eurozone – and , indeed , to the european union ’s entire edifice , of sovereign-debt default . on the other hand , many emerging economies , heavily reliant on commodity export earnings , stressed the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases , it disastrously .
let the world remember that the gaza crisis is a manmade catastrophe . and let the world recall that the scale of gaza is a manmade catastrophe these days . by nearly half the labor force is unemployed ; the local industry has collapsed . the water and wastewater systems are failing ; garbage are piling up in the streets . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid .
new york – the european union needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the lack of a shared asylum policy that has transformed this year ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . this precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , members of the general public and the authorities in charge of law and order . every member state has selfishly focused on its own interests , often behaving in contrast to others ’ interests . asylum-seekers have been the main victims , and asylum seekers have been displaced . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over asylum-seekers ’ flows , so that they take place in a safe , orderly – and at a pace that reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
despite xi ’s great success in consolidating his power and expanding his hold on him indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . the leading economists would concede that xi ’s campaign also conveniently rid many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to substitute for a credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct , or to avoid possible mistakes . of course , whether they are right remains to be seen .
sadly , his insight was sound : european countries today are at loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . in the 1920 ’s , and the 1930s , representatives from european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at a time primarily german reparations ) . history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers risk make this serious danger . the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that the monetary union forged conflict within europe . at the time , he derided , and considered an entrenched adversary of the european project .
sometimes , like the recent violence to quell south chinese peasants ’ protests of official land grabs , the ccp remains showing its willingness to employ “ boot-on-the-face ” suppression . whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are divided on different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . still , there have been moments that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over orwell ’s . the same might be said of china today , where stories between rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and coastal and inland cultures are so huge that it is much more difficult than before for people from a varied walks of life to feel like sharing common plights and goals . to be sure , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society .
fears of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what the government can and should do are not immutable . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage a proactive governmental role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning over voters . there are similar trends for many european countries as well , most notably in southern europe . they are prone to persuasion , experiences , and changing circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of his first official policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama made a major focus on climate change , by making clear both his own priorities and the facts upon which these priorities rest . obama ’s policy outline via videos to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s summer of global warming , and he was again shown at poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out the global warming roadmap . sadly , both are dollars weak , or even falling short . according to obama , the few challenges confronting america and the world are more pressing than tackling climate change . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , even as they neglects to fix the question of how much we can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies .
still , for centuries the british empire generated riches , supplying raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective purpose , as did a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the insecurity created by the northern irish “ “ backstop ” uncertainty . before creating an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the english built a land-empire by expanding from the south of the british pound to the western world . hence , while the “ outer empire ” allowed for the convergence in the uk of differing national identities around a shared british identity , the “ inner empire ” was a decidedly english modern .
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . that is why corruption has fueled mass protests from bucharest to brasilia over the past year . whereas a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes are stealing everybody . freedom of expression , and other fundamental rights , is not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable for undermining free societies , and for good reason .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic allegiances should be judged against this disenchantment background , not by an ideal moral or economic norm . the promise of working with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , though it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed in this way , trump ’s ’s isolationism is a populist way to say that the us needs to withdraw from its commitments it has neither a power nor a willingness to honor . in other words , trumpism might be the solution to a crisis of liberalism , not a portal of its disintegration . disengaging peacefully from the exposed cause of global responsibilities will present trump ’s greatest challenge .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s alleged intention to divide jerusalem . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to the old , vacuous slogans about a united jerusalem policy – a conviction that could still unravel the israel-palestine peace process . in a last-ditch effort to improve his proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who has largely avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu in the white house to urge him to moderate his positions . but changing netanyahu ’s own mind will be no easy feat – not least because of the domestic political pressures he faces . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework convention for an conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter .
new haven – last summer ’s end marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks – the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . the fed has done none of this , which is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj unveiled yet another feeble policy gambit . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . both the fed and the boj pursue strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies that they have been inclined to administer .
today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is very much part of the solution . it was henry kissinger , who argued in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on new york and the washington of 2001 that tragedy could turn to occasion . if the prague summit wo n’t showcase any spectacular new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched the new nato-russia relationship last may at our specific summit in rome . much has already been achieved over the last six months to transform rome ’s political message into practical cooperation . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers the us an effective and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decision-making , and even joint action .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terrorist activities outside of iran and its proxies ’ puppet master of its proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet , for the last few years , the regime has been pushing a smart public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or the caesar-as-poet . yet , to iranians , it has since been a more complicated figure . and , as one of the little-known islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders not tainted with accusations of corruption , he has been mooted as a probable presidential candidate in the next election . while regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , among many iranians who have lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations or who oppose the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora , they saw it differently .
to square the circle , macron needs more growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . a vocal critic of protectionism , he will press for an eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . yet he also wants to boost the us economy , with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package , and to expand the welfare state . his endorsement of the el khomri law , which has made it easy to fire workers , and his opposition from the remaining 35-hour week , indicate his desire to boost the french labor market ’s ’s “ flexibility . ” he plans to cap the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from the tax on wealth .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that because the collapse of the soviet empire , the dangers of war can be crossed by the list of potential risks . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it has returned in fits and differing forms . america , they say , should start paying attention to its own problems , and they should not get engaged in a world in which its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . never in the modern era , however , does isolationism protect america from dangers ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . eventually , america pays a thousand times more for its initial lack of interest than it might have paid has become engaged at the outset of a crisis , or , better yet , even earlier .
harnessing the asset-backed security model , the us recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund , and china to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . there are plenty of other areas where those committed to fighting climate change can follow our example . here , too , there are sound creative solutions . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , with financing for expanding the bus fast transit ( brt ) system is a proven way to cut congestion , emissions , and commuting costs . this will allow trained pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly essential equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop shops and workshops , from tijuana to tierra del fuego .
such an alliance would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on the u.s. . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem clear . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants might , should and i believe that it can regain control over its borders , allow it to strengthen and enforce the necessary limits on migration . once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and european unity could make all the difference . the spd should hold out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , with the cdu/csu holding its chancellorship .
when there is enough excess supply in an economy , encouraging supply-side productivity is practically useless without the demand-side efforts . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the total impact on monetary policy will weaken , because it increasingly affects prices more than output . in any case , the success of monetary policy in abe ’s central government is hard to deny . that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from the demand-focused first and second arrows to the policy-oriented third arrow : the new growth strategy . fortunately , that is precisely what abe is planning to do .
now that the debate heats up again in france as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has incited a furious dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution , and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government leaders are forbidden to gathering information concerning a citizen ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or alleged , when conducting a census or any other effort to rally people ’s statistical information . race has always been a provocative topic when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . there are two key reasons for this , but not to be seen . the first is the republican principle enshrined in the us constitution , which recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinction among them because of origin , race , or religion .
in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an efficient mix of smart prevention strategies and a robust system of law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can be inlearned , accountability can be taught , and that impunity can be ended . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies to achieve this end . no one prefers a living in a community where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services like health care and education . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies to achieve this end .
but the goal is surely worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of wellbeing . recent studies find that when “ generalized trust ” in a society is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction is higher . among other reasons , commercial agreements tend to be more easily politicized and effectively implemented . persuasive american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may actually control might seem a futile task . in these countries , ministers are being compelled to resign over petty government that would appear trivial in other countries .
the fed started a process of normalizing monetary policy , but did n’t complete the task , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent those taking action , by heckling from the sidelines . as they put it , the use of the fiscal adrenaline could be limited only when it is most needed . bank capital has been enormously strengthened , and the transparency of derivatives markets materially enhanced . there is an urgent need to put “ restock ” the emergency arsenal , ” ” ” ” ” particularly when relatively little scope for relax monetary policy is available . still , some elements of the post-crisis agenda remain positive .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , its refusal to allow liu to roll up the prize , and its even endangered norway with its financial repercussions . a similar month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies entered an open drilling deal with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions outside the business will not stop . so western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff and focus on the signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are made quietly by more pragmatic leaders , who really are susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth . indeed , globalization has made every country ever more interdependent , in turn demanding greater global cooperation . that means that the system ’s focus must shift away from speculative and proprietary trading in order to lending and job creation – which entails reforms of financial-sector regulation and of antitrust and corporate-governance laws – together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . we might hoped-for america will show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure its sovereign debt ; in addressing world warming ; in democratizing the international business institutions ; and in providing assistance to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , though i am not sanguine to get a lot of it .
little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states seek to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . indeed , iran is the only country that has openly declares its desire to destroy another united nations member state . the ongoing fighting in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . nevertheless , the stakes are far higher than in the 1800s , for iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to obtain nuclear weapons . that issue , of course , is utterly outside israel ’s control .
the strategic significance of the dramatic heights , overlooking the majority of north israeli galilee , is palpable . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as are the political will on either side . the agendas of both parties are different : while syria is focused on the symbolic meaning of a return to the golan heights , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding its northeastern border security , as well as an end to a syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon , a country that is practically syrian protectorate . for israel , a quid pro quo for its return to the golan is not an fragment of its paper with ordinary phrases about peace and “ coexistence . ” precisely because syria , bereft of soviet support , poses less threat to israel , jerusalem can be more flexible than ever , when the golan was a glacis advocating israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly extending all the way to vladivostok .
whereas army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are too disgruntled statements by the recent police and army reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from provinces staffed by chechen veterans might cherish sticking excitement for moscow 's fat cats . likewise , army officers from the poorer regions are more grateful for the salary hike that putin ’s united russia party had announced with so much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma election . but , while some part of the security apparatus might support the initial crackdowns , violent repression would find it difficult to sustain . in the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , throughout the same year in china , the protesters in beijing were devastated by soldiers from inner mongolia who did not understand a mandarin and lacking sympathy for big-city dwellers .
but not proceeding , too , would have been a catastrophe . the crisis of 1992 proved that the current system was already unstable . not by moving forward to the euro would set europe against even more disruptive crises . not by proceeding now with bank recapitalization now and government bond purchases would similarly lead to disaster . that is why european leaders took the ambitious steps they did .
but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s same attitude toward musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america of the pacific century , ” ” then-secretary of state hillary clinton indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy . two years later , then-us secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america of the pacific century , ” she noted a shift in america ’s global strategy . the us claims , of course , that it , too , knows all about democracy .
mr. bush 's international credibility , they should emphasize , does n't suffer through avoiding a war but gains further through the control of iraq 's hitherto covert military effort . alas , by its behavior in chancellor schroeder 's re-election campaign last september , the german government has maneuvered itself from having any individual authority on the issue . to give additional credence to their praise , it should abandon the question that if war becomes america 's only option . but they should also emphasize the fact that war is not the sole and certainly not an automatic `` serious consequence '' to follow from iraq 's non-compliance . to be sure , some of america 's allies are better suited than the others to get these points across the audience on the other side of the atlantic .
africa ’s smallholder farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and the resource competition fueled by a surging population , face an even harsher bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to prove that the land they call home is theirs . uncertain of their capacity to take ownership of their farms in future generations , farmers ’ planning horizons shrink . this is particularly true of women-friendly farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . instead of investing in terraced fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s ’s ’s ’s farmers are seeking to maximize their short-term profits . studies reveal there is no way to cut back on poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals , without strengthening land rights , especially for women .
my view is that , within a decade , germany would have been better off under more neo-liberal policies . but this does not seem to be what german voters want , and this fabricates the complexion of german politics four years from the now incalculable . coupled with all this is northern european discontent with central bankers specifically with the ecb and the euro . it ’s not that ending europe ’s monetary union is on the agenda ; it ’s only just that people began to think about possible low-probability futures in which exit might place on the agenda . that is enough to shake asset prices up worldwide .
the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place grand finisher , maliki ’s state of law coalition . of course , its organizers are loath to describe this as the sunni party . but , within iraq , there are too few people – both sunni or shia – who see no iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . that vision holds great appeal among those who want to see a less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . rather , it is described as the national party proposing people of all orientations to participate .
in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector , representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak and unable to generate a sustainable gain . for deutsche bank , market speculators have already seemed to anticipate a merger , like the commerzbank , another german institution . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and ultimately europe ’s entire political experiment . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimates , will require at least a third of european banks close or merge . but many are “ zombie banks , ” with too many branches , too few deposits , and funding costs far beyond their more successful peers .
none of this will make it easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . today , ’s ’s febrile political environment will not streamline matters . they should take special care to prevent a real-estate bubble , because real gdp represents a huge share of overall wealth , and a crucial source of collateral in finance . but the vigorous rise of qualified-good leveraged loans should also worry . monetary tightening might slow growth temporarily ; preventing bubbles growth is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth have hardly made a popular favorite .
in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government has adopted a new approach to debt . many economists have argued that this case has been built on the basis of some arithmetic my view . so it might be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . but the european central bank , notably by ecb board member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction – a case that is both politically significant and deeply moral . indeed , the principle that government debt is not reneging on official debt is deeply intertwined with the development of the rule of law , the representative government , and modern democracy .
unfortunately , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from over . in fact , some conservative republicans have derided another of its appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or a financial crisis . and though someday the fed will almost surely embrace this counsel ( i have also made a hearing on the matter ) , goodfriend ’s nomination has barely survived america ’s senate banking committee . trump may simply be keeping his powder dry over until a real conflict erupts . but , by and large , the senate has given trump what he wants , and a large number of republican senators would have embraced a disrupter , such as – the disciple of ron – passing the fed ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” paul mueller , or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard .
yet india continues to confront its many challenges : almost 300 million people living in abject poverty , a spreading naxalite rebellion , the dangers of the terrorist attacks of ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . by addition , how will singh balance the trade-off between the pro-market , pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the rising middle class ’s expectations of improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight , but they will not be solved . yet the growing conviction that we can better keep india a stable polity .
empirically , few firms get it right : america ’s national public radio , and the bbc have both recently hacked from the sea ; while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders rather than knock the first stone to a company in which they are violating . finally , the ap is unlikely to face financial penalties for this mistake . a lawsuit regarding the loss stemming from a nuclear-armed tweet would face nearly insurmountable obstacles . for the us , empirically , few firms get that right : america ’s national public radio , and the bbc were both recently sea hacked , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised .
detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of conventional weather variation or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . several trials earlier this year have shown that researchers can indeed detect long-term climate change amid the rising frequency of more extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms . using cutting-edge climate models , scientists are not only discovering the long-term effects of climate change ; they are also attributing at least some of the more extreme events to human causes . the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge – and has also given us an even more cause for concern . attribution implies the capacity to assign likely factors to human activity or other factors .
the mutual assessment process that the g-20 countries have agreed is a crucial component of a rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . so rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative . the international exchange-rate system is at least partly violated . if it works , what will emerge will be commitments from g-20 countries to commit to policies that are globally beneficial in the condition that others stick their commitments . america might cut its deficits faster than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings .
and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the united states ’ 2020 presidential election . this approach is unlikely to work because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived . given the power of big tech firms to choke off competition , reversing these trends will require government interference . but the solutions that are proposed , including by legal scholars like unilever and lina khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . in particular , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – the two strongest contenders vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump – have called for groundbreaking by major tech firms .
on one recent trip , i met rashid rashid , a young mother who told me that thanks to a safety net of her savings group , she was managing to support her own family , despite her husband , emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering droughts . the best part was that she described herself as a “ hard-working , respectful , rigorous , rigorous , and ambitious female . ” those are adjectives that women everywhere , no matter their financial situation or education , deserve ascribe to herself . she was diversifying her income , managing her finances , and even accepting climate-smart farming techniques . during each of my field visits , i marveled at how these efforts affect female lives .
investing in these firms , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate that possibility . that reality implies another compelling case for divestment . stock values in the fossil-fuel industry , which are premised on the pretense that companies will extract and burn all the known reserves , will plummet .
in the late 1970s and 1980s alone , it became clear that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . following the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , the bush administration gave way to the us-1 + n order , in which all other nations ( the ussr ) unable to rival america as a sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was a period of liberal rules-based multilateralism . democratic and market-based capitalism ushered in the seemingly victorious role of what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ” america broadly championed that order , the iraq war of 2003 , and , like most countries , benefited enormously from the advent of globalization and the emergence of new , complicated value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that have included increases in the retirement age . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and a declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . addressing the russian threat of domestic economic grievances will not be easy . russia ’s economy remains under severe strain in the wake of the western-imposed sanctions over crimea . with few options rallying popular opinion , putin may well have decided that the time has come to “ remind putin of russia ” being under attack .
first , eu member states say they are willing to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing precisely that ; and in amsterdam last year they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress on progress . this stands in stark contrast to other aspects of europe ’s agenda . the goal of economic and monetary union , plus the single currency , also adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the fact that the single currency will become a reality for just two months ’ time .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as certain forms of western neo-imperialism . this is true for actions contemplated by individual peoples , temporary alliances , or stronger alliances like nato . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces , particularly at this late-stage , changing the crucial perception of this intervention , in and out of both the arab world and beyond . only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can ensure the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for the notable self-defense – demands . this latest point has been at the heart of the problems facing iraq .
meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , compounded by a humanitarian disaster . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical-weapons weapons poses an immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight until the end . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups makes clear an obviously predictable outcome . this regional re-convergence needs not necessarily anti-western , but it certainly will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily .
governments have played a major role in domestic media for decades , using broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . yet , in recent years , governments have also backpedaled on their budget clout . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenue . in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is growing . unfortunately , while this windfall might package more programming in the air , it only tends to deepen the industry ’s woes .
with its establishment , stemming from a long and appalling experience , the fundamental idea of modernity – that the powers of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of law , thereby placing individual rights above national sovereignty – has taken great strides forward . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection , ” against a system of governmental arbitrariness , and states of crimes against their individual means , even while enforcement remains quite dubious . a next big step was the emergence of a conception of humanitarian intervention following the rwandan genocide and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . this development was anything but accidental . finally , the same development of politics and international law led to the establishment of the international court of justice ( icj ) .
the winner , the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome , was an anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . according to tft ’s approach , the bilateral game should start with a degree of cooperation : if the other player behaves cooperatively , so should you do the same . of course , when the other player cooperates , one could be tempted to defect to raise one ’s own payoff , and a potentially even secure windfall , in one ’s own right . only if another player ’s defects – this is , starts with an non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . in fact , axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a after prisoner ’s dilemma .
most of the world ’s malnourished children live in india . unfortunately , however , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , though perhaps well boosting growth in the short run , ultimately appears on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for the threat from the far right , anyone hopes to make peace in the region , and to reduce tensions within india among religious communities , is being relieved of a defeat by the hindu hindu-nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as the existential threat to india has badly misfired .
and , indeed , there can be no denying the fact that friedman ’s ’s ’s cure proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession , strongly suggesting that it would fall similarly short in the great depression . the dominance of friedman ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ideas in the early great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the fact that the science of economics was all too often tainted by politics . in that case , the contamination was bad enough that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and applied the keynesian and minskyite policies on a massive enough scale to resolve the problems presented by the great recession . but it is fairly clear that even in the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence supporting friedman ’s ideas to justify his increasing dominance . admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would oblige mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
berlin – until the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union was in a state of turmoil . on the one hand , it protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-dependent economy , from speculative attack , and from chaos of currency volatility . on the other hand , it mercilessly exposed the european crisis ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . rising intra-eu tensions were the inevitable outcome . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis were plainly contradictory .
sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always equivocal . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s peoples and the entire region , there is a real possibility . after all , the regime ’s oppressive nature in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that tore the country apart . indeed , since the civil war ’s end in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently been forced to confront the militias that operate as government proxies . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the aim of destabilizing the predominantly christian south .
one approach is to capture co2 at an individual power plant as coal or gas burned . another is to capture it directly from the air using specially designed chemical processes . but this technology , called for carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a massive scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining locations in a world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) a second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground .
in a post-crisis financial order , governments need to assume a role in tracking and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives adding to the current crisis could easily recur . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern for pay in financial firms . one set of concerns emerges from shareholders ’ perspectives . figures recently released by the new york times attorney general , andrei cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms are paying their employees aggregate compensation , up from $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 , a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially diminishes . such patterns may raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their own interests .
it ’s time to call a spade a spade : a republican party is overwhelmingly responsible . consider the issue of “ bump stock , ” ” gun modification that the las vegas massacre perpetrator used to fire faster . earlier this month , some republican senators drew praise for indicating that they would support a bill against the facility . but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban , republican politicians overwhelmingly opposed it . such manufactured even-handedness is the tantamount to “ fake news . ”
by 2000 , that share had dropped to 22 % , and by 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than a 3 % living in outright destitution . today chile is a very different approach from chile 20 years ago . the 29 % of the population who have left poverty behind are now a incipient middle class , with its new aspirations and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunity and improved living conditions have grown louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , greater access to improved health services , a safer environment , and greater access to higher education – the single most important factor for social advancement .
in fact , clinton is the only person who has been known to have started her campaign twice before . ( the first attempt , in iowa , where she discussed about eight people in closed meetings , did not work very well . ) success in america ’s presidential politics requires super-b intuitions , ranging from rapid to one ’s legs , and , most important , a compelling rationale for running . true , clinton is offering multiple programs that she would push as president ; but to borrow from winston churchill , there is no useful theme to her pudding . this spectacular , remarkably smart woman merely does not feel for the politics demanded at the top .
just a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , a senior imf staff told anyone to listen that an entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . employing slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund tried to persuade investors that eurozone debts were solid as a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to a predicted rebound in growth and reform . as the situation deteriorated , one might have forecast that the imf would mark its beliefs about the market as it was and adopted a more cautious tone . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s rationale , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and implementation risks far more akin to emerging markets than to genuinely advanced economies like germany and the united states .
another alternative , supported by a large and growing body of study in economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now available to many countries , and the idea of cutting back to chase takes advantage of this as a metric of prosperity has powerful advocates . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically consistently show a score of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . one way to make such a indicator more directly relevant to policy would be to track ways that people use their time and attach wellbeing measures to each . but this possibility has several drawbacks , including making any difference in wellbeing indicators over time .
the shift toward the financing that thatcher has promoted heightened inequality and made the us economy more volatile . her “ right to buy ” policies has triggered an upward spiral in house prices , prompting households to take on more and deeper debt . such reforms have sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the “ big boom ” of 1986 , which heavily regulated us financial services , made risky behavior in the city the norm . if that was the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was the default .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , especially those pertaining to advanced economies , have little impact ( putting it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its attracted talented and dedicated staff , as well as its unique connections to countries . and , yes , it has bravely taken the lead in exposing more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate-change mitigation . but its forward-thinking analyses have consistently proved backward , with its quantitative projections consistently conditional on substantial revisions . yes , it has been making important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy .
indeed , the predominant view of arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free from their belief that islam confines all arab women on an equal footing when , in reality , they experience very different conditions . and , sadly , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilism that derives from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge of the very real changes taking place . this prevents many from seeing , a much less evaluating , the deep changes taking place of arab societies – and how women drive those changes forward . this is particularly necessary because the palestinian situation is one of the central benchmarks that the outside world and , specifically , the west , uses to assess the arab world . the west thus risks depriving itself of the important central importance of understanding of the arab world today and , as it will be tomorrow .
riesman ’s framework has specific resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with their three types competing to define the region ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , one of the religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and modern technology that is fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and a western-oriented modernizers – in the rest of the world . in the lonely crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that seek inherited rituals , morals , and guidance cultures , in which humans behave by accordance with self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that have react predominantly on external norms and peer influences . by exploiting their capacity to project ’s exploration and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating science , the two camps struggle to the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies .
china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or more for more than three decades . hundreds of millions of chinese had entered the middle class , and the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed appealing to a number of other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states and thus seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism . until recently , there was little cause for such a question . with the remarkable growth slowdown , china absorbed japan as the world ’s second-largest economy .
furthermore , there is a strong case for improving american national security if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america helped their countries prosper , rather than try to keep them as poor as possible for as long as they can . the reason that this narrative is wrong is straightforward . there are good reasons why america adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . after that , the u.s. established permanent normal trade relationships with china , refusing to labeled its government a currency manipulator . in helping mexico , china , and other developing countries grow , the u.s. gets richer trade partners .
according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are in cash ; and more than half of all payments are made in cash . as is often the case in europe , the diversity among the member states is pronounced : the proportion of cash-settled transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . yet , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong . but it is an open question whether the still-fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than the companies that offer a payment solution . there is one more important problem with arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in europe , do n’t want it .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to be dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . one vehicle has not been able to break across its border crossings ; the other penetrated israeli defense forces before being stopped by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , jihadi terrorist terrorists ambushed the egyptian army base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers , and then spawning the frontier with israel . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , a military leader of the high command , has yet to diminished the relevance of the trouble there .
but as countries that have largely relied on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from the prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to take sides . cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has trouble , including incomplete or outdated negotiating rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to the soes . but they also know that bilateralism – smallholder countries trying to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers – is not an option . to defend their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not endorsement of the status quo .
grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators are intended to complement the government-led reporting mechanism . in kenya , all sdg 16-related public-sector officials , departments , and agencies are obliged to sign performance treaties with a central government in which to identify the sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , and to explain how they are integrated into policy and development plans . ghana and benin , meanwhile , emphasize budget spending with a high sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated pledges under this goal . moreover , a number of countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments deploy new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . finally , some african – sdg 16 champions ” are making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and report .
it is difficult , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any substantial portion of the wealth of today ’s rich nations to today ’s poor nations . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the communist victories in the post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would have impoverished peoples now in the rich north . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations in the first place : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 would have done the work there . but alternatives that would have transformed a southern richer at the price of lowering the north ’s wealth would demand a wholesale revolution in human psychology . on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems .
and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all of the holdout creditors who accepted it could elicit the same terms as the holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook worth $ 140 billion more . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the country ’s total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion , with additional assets held by the central bank . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . nouveau capital and the rest of the vultures comprise just 1 % of the creditors , but would receive a total of $ 1.5 trillion . each argentine might thus owe more than $ 3,500 , in excess of one-third of the average annual per capita income .
the major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are all being forced to work hard to make up for the twenty-first century . business may moan and the london media may carp up , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more , or at least better , government , not less . after bali , it will become essential to reflect serious on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . the un ’s authority has frayed . until the trend reversal of declining multilateralism changes , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve .
economists and moralists were united in believing that you should really spend less than you earn , in order to “ save up ” for the proverbial rainy day or old-age individuals . and , if a person became indebted , it was a point of honor to repay liabilities when it fell due , asset sales , declining consumption , working harder , or a certain combination of the three . by definition , the very same attitudes governed the institutional debt . indeed , it was often more than a tipping point : failure to repay debt on time landed a borrower in jail . getting into debt was long associated with profligacy , or with fecklessness .
more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . although china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , in the wake of the 1989 tiananmen square massacre , its publicly subservient ideology to the cause of wealth creation , took its place . that example , in turn , had a constructive hold on surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . labpolitically , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden implosion amounted to strategic boardrooms for asia , removal of an ominous empire , and opening the way for china to rapidly pursue its interests globally .
similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , together with al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while none of these groups constitutes a majority point , they do exert significant influence , and probably believe that they are acting in the majority ’s interest . developments following the arab spring might provide some indication of the prospects for religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned in stating that this would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively and promised that he respect minority rights . yet subsequent steps designed to give him an unprecedented executive branch raise concerns about these early positive steps .
fourth , reversal of the verdict ’s verdict on june 4th is an historical inevitability , as is the wish of the majority of china ’s people . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping , and others of the party ’s elders – have die . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that the official reappraisal is only a matter of time . this group will unite with forces for democratization both at home and abroad to establish a truly democratic system . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been split over the event that has ever occurred .
by joining the euro , italy has given monetary sovereignty an external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it has also made provision of special commitments with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policy , though these constraints are not as “ hard ” as the framing of monetary policy . it also undertook specific choices with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policy , although these constraints are not as “ hard ” as the one framing monetary policy . these duties place the real limits on the italian institutions ’ macroeconomic policy choices . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority and allowed the financial markets to veto a minister ’s choice by a popularly elected government .
in pakistan , an extremist now wears the islamic garb , stands for a faith creator and a theocratic order . what , by contrast , might a pakistani liberal stand for ? in the darkness , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for the worshippers to unite behind a single true faith . in any contest of thought , the more extreme will tend to triumph over the more moderate . once again , we see how misplaced western national priorities can burnish a non-western nation .
at the same time , there are strong grounds for believing that they ought to do so . most mammals , for example , need to kill a method that minimizes their pain and hardships . such laws resemble regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , requiring that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have its throats cutter and are “ bled away . ” there are of course circumstances in which an astonishing failure and animals die while fully conscious ; but when stunning works properly , it can lessen the suffering of animals . japan has relatively strict laws protecting animals ’ welfare .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his skills in political communication , perhaps because it was so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened him with his base . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known for a “ great communicators . ” trump , on the other hand , appealed mainly to the small minority that elected him . his inaugural address sounded like campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base .
much more important for achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern independent central bank , an instrument that has helped dramatically lower levels of inflation worldwide . it is extremely plausible that if , instead of joining the euro , italy , and spain had simply given their central banks more autonomy , they , too , would have had low inflation today . indeed , if southern european countries kept their own currencies , they might never have dug as large a debt hole , with the possibility of a partial default through high inflation . yes , a few places like venezuela still have triple-a pricing growth , but these are now rarities . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poorer african countries have been able to keep inflation well within single digits , one might presume that greece would manage as well .
in fact , one may have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , as cohn has done – letting his apparent anguish becomes known without acting in the us . speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump , ” peaked in early september , when the us president abruptly slashed a deal with a democratic congressional leader . cohn has been seen as one of the administration with more moderate voices , eager to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . but problems could arise when a us president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn had to let it be known publicly that he nearly resigned the following violence in charlottesville , va.
on may 17 , advocacy organizations oxfam america sued the american securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule , which was carried out by section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act . but the risks are as real as the potential reward , if only because the potential ones are being met . resource industries are the relentless sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . transparency – full disclosure of everything from revenue-management schemes and environmental commitments – is critical for realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits often belong in less-developed countries suffering from preexisting governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges .
links to west africa appear close and off over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or people of india living in the region . india ’s government , it seems , will be unlikely to retain tabs on all arrivals from west africa . indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting via the middle east or europe . while exit controls center for all of the affected regions ’ international airports , the virus of incubation times ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) , means that someone with no symptoms from the recent infection could make that a trip to india without triggering the alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government requires it to be loosely enforced , with a number of passengers exiting a chinese-language list that was supposed to pass to immigration officials .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has reported some of the most draconian public-sector cutbacks any advanced country government has made such an effort . indeed , his education education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s ’s universities will be slashed by as much as 40 % . a war against the arts and humanities is nothing new – though this may be the first time that brexit has migrated so directly to britain . yet the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than the science and engineering of technologies supposedly do better for business . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of politics and propaganda at the 1980 ’s , which demonized a national endowment for the arts .
given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more obvious than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world were previously aimed only at sustaining the repressive dictatorships and escaping certain criminal abuse of power . the reform “ debate ” within those regimes boiled down to a struggle between the different branches of the security-military apparatus over the best ways to keep the status quo in check . when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ nationwide reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . the chief of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently being tried against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation pact . ” for it was “ repentance from heresy . ”
when lending expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on its deposits . enough high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield rates to expanding the quantity of private lending . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise interest rates on us deposits in order to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how this would work in practice . so what if , then , if that interest rate had to be 4 % or 6 % , or even 8 % , now ?
they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any one country , including the us and china , was at risk of a crisis . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than they are in preventing the next one . the nature of financial risk is constantly shifting in ways that are hard to forecast using backward-looking think indicators like those devised by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing have promised to deal with this “ challenge . ” they have called for a process to ensure that when the warning lights flashed yellow , the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies .
why , then , should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this pattern ? first , he dare not appear “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to try guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even keep them out of trial forever : lawyers say that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the army that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are scenes of crime . according to wells nixon , a attorney general at the center for constitutional rights representing some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk inviting torture practices for it , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in any court . moreover , obama has tried to suppress 100 pictures of us-run sexual assault in the us , and has done nothing to roll back the patriot act .
but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without provoking yet another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that resulted in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . specifically , experts like hoenig think of the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it simply would not work for the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panic is about panic , ” says hoenig , “ and humans and nations and nations generally protect and their wealth ahead of others . ” moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and to prevent the grabbing of assets . if the authorities – explicitly the federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is impossible , they have the legal power to compel the banks to change how they operate , including by downsizing their scale and scope .
paris – the central paradox of french politics has been confirmed once again on march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the so called conseiller général ) , the far-right national front won 11 % of the vote cast , but secured a mere 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since the jean-marie le pen established france 40 years ago . and , with that change , the front ’s fortunes can shift , as well .
with technical support like these , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system , one that , through 2019 , will be fully funded with indigenous resources . the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that should make donor countries proud . i believe that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make , as many governments have come to understand from the start . the united states has been the global fund , ’s largest single supporter , but many others have so far done their part . for example , australia has provided some $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people in access to tb , seven million to ensure that malaria is secured , and 14 million bed nets to provide families in need .
new york – everyone , from elected officials and bureaucrats to electorates and taxpayers , can learn from the world its biggest benevolent foundation of effective development spending . and these same insights are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues and let recipient countries deal with issues the best they can ( opposition to imf aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . in contrast to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to the countries that hate us , ” ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid needs us relief . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday times recently launched a petition calling for the cessation of ring-ft-aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal aid budget to aid , but the average american believes that figure would be thirty-one-times higher .
but the first drops prey to the long american occupation , with the second currently facing a us-led oil-export embargo aimed at reining it financially . second , further isolation of iran will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement from the country and is seeking to cut a deal with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s top aid donors , does not have a contiguous corridor to that country , and must rely on iran for access . as a result , america ’s effort to give the international effect on its new sanctions act represents a double whammy for india . first , it risks sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , which managed to ride out of the arab spring .
a key obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of congressional approval in order to increase america ’s quota share . this opens the possibility that an american vote power might temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions , which required the support of 85 % of imf members ’ votes for votes . to secure american support , the board of governors could have committed not to contemplate any proposal that imposes 85 % backing without american consent . it would remain in effect , provided the u.s. increased its quota and restored its voting share . that guarantee could be integrated into the resolution dividing the reform package .
but , nearly six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals to the south island of lampedusa has fallen to roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted an equal number of different asylum-seekers in 2009 . the problem for italian officials , as for the rest of the governments affected by the recent migration flows , is the pressure of right-wing populist parties that no longer need the defensive . the case for openness , inclusion , and pluralism in european societies has become much harder to make . italian officials have privately reaffirmed that current figures are not ungovernable .
germany ’s federal government recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which the oecd ’s recent forecast will soar to about 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state-run budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . likewise , in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , based on the same oecd forecast , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus as in germany , at 4.4 % of gdp . in addition , germany has much more inner stability than america , on the grounds that it does not have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now constrained by their borrowing . while that certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes great structural challenges , it also means that the state reacts extremely counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy largely , which benefits the entire world .
the ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution moving forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” just a couple of months earlier , the four were moved on to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the global economic system ’s rules . that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member proclaimed its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . across the private sector , bric index funds proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term , the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 , to discuss . but catchy ideas are dying hard , shifting russia to cement its current concept of the brics into an irreversible reality .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his skillful dole ’s cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , though luck has also played a role . his strategic defense initiative , intended to end the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was really nicknamed the “ star wars . ” after all , the victory of the cold war substantially aided mikhail gorbachev , whose drive for reform of the soviet union hastened his collapse . reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his capacity to dole out of movie-star cruelty to movie-star charm , though luck , too , has played a role . after all , the victory in the cold war aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose drive for reform of the soviet union reflected his collapse .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , the riots and death recently saw in xinjiang could take hold in russia . instead of hearing a crackdown on urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we might be reading more than hundreds more killed on our streets in nepal , and columnists would be making comparisons between a bloody grounding of ukrainian independence demonstrations in kyiv the previous year . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would have been possible , with some speculation over potential links between kazakh militants and exile groups or islamic fundamentalists . experts would have reminded us that even kazakhstan had never been a country , and that ukrainian claims to its independence were historically dubious . substitutes for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get the picture .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans set to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly . so , why did the imf flip side ? renminbi-denominated government bonds have been issued in london , setting plans for the creation of new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . so , why did the imf flip of it ?
but foreign import barriers and exports of exports are hardly the reason for america 's trade deficit . the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . foreign governments ' policies affect only the extent to which deficits divide between america 's trading partners . the overall trade deficit results from the saving and investment decisions of america 's households and firms . the reason americans ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ saving and investment decisions drive an overall trade deficit is straightforward : when a country saves more of its total output than it invests on its business equipment and design , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no obvious impact study has been made . many modi ’s supporters argue that demonetization policies ’s ’s ’s problems are the result of inept execution . but the truth is that his design was fundamentally flawed . there was no “ skeleton ” policy , no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence of alternative policy options . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent political environment that he created , modi has debated to go even further , moving india toward a fully “ muslim-majority ” cashless society .
washington , dc – the terrorism on the scale that witnessed this month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram famous for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in 2014 and inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted un tourists – orchestrating the assaults on a museum and a beach resort . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , shooters belonging to an al qaeda affiliate stormed the radisson blu hotel in bamako last summer , killing 22 people . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab has carried out two major attacks , on nairobi ’s norwegian shopping mall in 2013 , and on garissa university in 2015 , along with a number of smaller acts of terror .
that no longer applies to the thousands of princes . indeed , with the ratio of royals to commoners now on one per thousand ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , calls for steering princely privileges , pay material , and demand for employment have never been greater . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are mounting . as the older generation languishes , a new generation has sunk to fight ahead of customers . royal perks incorporate lifetime sinecures and civil-service domination , enabling the princes to award contracts and to obtain commissions on top their salaries .
london – julius nyerere , the first us president of tanzania , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children in order to service our debts ? ” over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian push has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion has been mobilized in emergency emergency relief for nutritional , public health , and clean water provision . that was in 1986 , before major public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burden . yet nyerere ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s question hangs like a dark cloud over somalia .
there is a strong likelihood that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its fed ’s withdrawal of liquidity support . at the same time , the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all of the riskiest emerging-market assets – have been nothing short of full end . brazil , along with other countries that have complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” ” ” ” ” ” has suddenly advanced what they would have wanted for : a supposedly premature end of the fed ’s tapering of qe . whether the correction in risky assets is temporary , or the start of a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will any serious exit from qe as soon as it signaled .
berkeley – since late 2014 , the us has been advocating a model of american governance based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution , which states that , “ us powers not delegated to the united nations by a constitution , or prohibited by the nsa , are reserved for states respectively or for the people . increasingly , california has followed suit with such constitutional rights . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
europeans are slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is at last gaining some traction . i moderated a session on “ a new context in east asia , ” addressed by a panel of eminent persons from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of japan ’s davos , all had first-hand experience with the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . yet i took away a very different conclusion from davos . i could n’t resist the temptation to grab asia over the european debate .
great scientific minds have taught over many decades to “ read ” the earth ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s history to understand how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( for example , satellites reading the detailed features of earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous variations in the earth ’s climate and oceanic and atmospheric chemistry , as well as exposure to extreme storms , droughts , and other dangers , which damage both the supply of food and the quality of life in the planet . the ipcc and climate scientists are telling us a crucial message , and this is what we know ?
some commentators have started pointing toward different views from the us and europe on the role of international law by opposing the use of force , in the dispute . some integration advocates see a united europe as a powerful partner . because europeans are militarily insignificant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than military might , work to settle disputes . others are motivated by a desire to establish a center of rival power , however unrealistic this seems to be . on the contrary , no one should be surprised that the americans chafe at constraints on their ability to project american military hegemony .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system failed to fulfill its central task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what happened , and take that analysis to reflect on in reforming these arrangements . we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees in order to ensure equal european security . even before the georgian crisis , russia already saw a need to revisit europe ’s security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions , and its function . the european union believes that a russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in initiating such a project .
princeton – should rallies result in violence ? that question has risen to the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists organized a rally to protest the previously planned removal from a public park of robert e. lee , a leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a counter-protest was organized , with the street fighting broke out . a woman , buddhist heyer , was killed and 19 people were injured when james language , a white nationalistic , drove his car at a high speed in a rally of counter-protesters .
china ’s modest experiments with local elections blended exercises in a “ deliberative democracy . ” these take the form of high-tech city-hall meetings . chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a deputy sample of zeguo citizens for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 million public-works budget . the zeguo exercise was considered tremendously successful and has been replicated elsewhere in china . and wen has indicated that village elections might extend to the next highest level of government posts – townships administrations – over the next several years .
already , european regulators have introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access for countries with an records of illegal fisheries , penalized european rogue operators , and helped promote “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . working together could enable the application of affordable , sophisticated seafood traceability technology – a data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint exactly where seafood comes from and when , for example , it captured it . such an effort – for example , the atlantic bluefin tuna – represent one of the most powerful tools to eliminate illicit fishing . eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people . the eu , japan , and the us would be even more efficient at aligning their policies to stop criminals from accessing their markets , and has allowed legitimate operators to profit from a “ supercharged ” level .
but , confronted with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , the urban poor are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they also are likely to be hit hardest by severe natural disasters , such as the droughts and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help create fragile environments that spawn civic disorders with the effects of death and injury . but a recent symposium at the oxford university concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating medical and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from technology-driven innovation opportunities created by the physical concentration of people and economic activity .
this followed the june 2001 court decision to establish a trial date , making it possible at last to present the evidence against these individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high-level military officials into trial . regrettably , the trials were delayed indefinitely because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed to the case . our achievements on the myrna mack ’s matter are notable , but achieving them has proven difficult : police investigator was assassinated ; judges were threatened ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i have been harassed , and the campaigns to discredit me organized .
that has certainly not happened at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we are facing a climate emergency that demands radical , urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced the point last month , with its report on climate change and land . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , and regions – have now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question now is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action .
at last but not least , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia stands perfectly in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and with italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is fairly simple : partly by default , and partly because of the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment . mediating between different systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of other countries has been charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with its closest historical and cultural relationship to russia , is at the center of the political cycle . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world or rally the europeans themselves .
the third path identified by the trilemma is to do away with national sovereignty altogether . for its part , john maynard keynes wrote the rules , together with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as some kind of temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country would need the space to pursue independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only a “ thin ” globalization , with capital flows amounting to large amounts of long-term lending and borrowing . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970s , owing to default or unwillingness – and it is not quite clear which leading governments should manage the rising tide of capital flows .
over time , however , better forensics may enhance the role of sanctions ; and improved defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . by any means , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to sustain . because technological innovation there exists more rapidly than in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by a heightened , reciprocal fear of surprise . but if this makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible for verification , one might still have the potential to impose limits on certain kinds of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) and negotiate rough rules of the road that restrict conflict . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change .
even then the us agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations , in order to ensure that no stone was left unturned in search of a mutually acceptable compromise . likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made it clear that it would veto the deal proposed by un secretary general anders fogh rasmussen . in georgian , by contrast , russia has moved from supporting territorial integrity to cracking the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do precisely that . the georgian conflict followed a sharp decline in investor confidence . it is now asking itself , once and for all , that is vital to a relationship between short-term military victories and longer-term economic prosperity .
more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . the democracies that have built that order embody the values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ concerns . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too heavily on the us for its security and prosperity .
at the environmental level , new institutions are emerging that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly for using in programs that certify sustainable resource use as they do in the case of forests and fisheries . a number of international negotiations on issues such as bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances . at the same time , knowledge-based institutions are better equipped to harness the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . indeed , modern international diplomacy depends more and more heavily on teams to make rules , set norms , and collect technical data . knowledge-based organizations are built on a wide range of alliances with media , and are playing an important role in influencing public opinion like diplomacy .
nor was a strong showing by populist parties at this month ’s election in italy , where the far-right five star movement ( m5s ) and the anti-establishment five star movement , together secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany , to some extent , has fallen victim to populist forces . in a country that seemed to be inoculated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development . to be sure , a new grand coalition government that includes german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) has formed . but it has lasted more than five months for governing parties , and now the largest opposition party is the far-right alternative for germany .
its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , and nobody will invest one cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved pemex ’s constitutional amendment can be overturned in 2015 , because the opposition ’s claims are made . likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers of political and electoral reforms . reelection is permitted only for candidates nominated by the same party for which they have originally run , and the enabling legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remains unclear . most significantly , the government seems to be backtracking on a commitment to permit a binding referendum to reopen the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . but curtailing democracy to modernize its energy sector is not a good idea .
whatever else it took , it began to get some heavy blows just a few years ago ( analogous to crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became abundantly clear that asset-price bubbles had n’t paid sufficient attention to asset-price bubbles . central bankers told themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention they deserve , by specifying that residential prices and equity prices could be taken for account for what they implied by information regarding goods of inflation . but this escapes clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( which suggested , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) neither preceded nor followed an inflation upsurge . that a boom-bust cycle might have emerged without inflation should n’t have come as a surprise .
employers can evade a mandate by cutting a worker ’s workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . but even for full-time employees , firms can opt to pay a relatively small fine rather than provide insurance . rather than incur the cost of the previously authorized policy premium , a smart employer might pay a fine for not providing insurance and raising employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash after purchasing an subsidized insurance policy . that fine is a $ 2,000 per employee , far less than the current average $ 16,000 premium for her employer-provided family policies . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm when its workers have the incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose income is less than four times its poverty level ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook , and clare short , want their own revenge , and therefore continue to attack blair for his `` lies '' team . so far , blair has shown a sense of resilience in such charges . but does the uncertainty now roaming blair like the vulture appetizingly scent of a lie ? or is it more the question of a prime minister losing the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? indeed , he went on counter-strike , notably against the bbc , which have not exactly supported the war with enthusiasm .
increasingly obsessed with the prospect of its own citizens and practices emerging under international scrutiny , america has over the last couple of years been contributing to the universal erosion of the un human-rights monitoring system . it has adamantly opposed several important and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and the new anti-torture mechanism . here america has found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . on the anti-torture protocol , the us has sought to derail the establishment of a universal system of detention visits , under the optional protocol to the convention against torture . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the un ’s economic and social council .
it must lead in mobilizing europe to force the global economy to work for the people , protect them from injustices and inequity . nor will it be enough to recall the historic gains of engagement , and to britain ’s distinguished 100-role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery in europe . what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a european leader . just as britain once led europe in fighting fascism , supporting its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be inside europe , leading the front ranks . a britain that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should prepare once again to lead a progressive movement , spearheading climate-change action , resisting protectionism , and promoting sustainable growth .
when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not just passive consumers , given the company trafficked in its data . the same goes for practically any of the other consumer-facing companies , from factory airlines to food providers . yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is built into the us economies . in the event that a company sells you a car that claims , say , is inappropriately tested , resulting in injury , the company pays a price . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign , “ customers beware . ”
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who come and go ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants , from poorer parts of europe , remain in their home country of destination , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . so what is to be done ? temporary residency status , in or outside of europe , would then be sensible if a quick return to normalcy in ’ refugees ’ ’ countries of origin were a realistic prospect . the asylum system is totally unprepared to handle a new generation of refugees ineligible under an existing framework because they are fleeing not of particular acts of persecution but from their states ’ disintegration . they can be provided “ humanitarian protection ” or be granted discretionary leave to stay ” after a short period ; but then they can be deported as illegal migrants .
princess di ’s legacy in generating the iconography that has opened the way for tremendous social change is grossly underappreciated . in other words , mrs. obama manages to establish himself , unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” she has studied carefully not only jackie kennedy – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and the page-boy haircut for all but the triumphs and setbacks of that other glamorous but underestimate stealth radical , princess diana . in her brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for the qualities ( her beauty and style ) that have been secondary to her career of her career , and is derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and messy personal lifestyle ) that have been just beside the point . as a result , few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformational her agenda has been , how well she considered it out , and how audaciously she sought to manage it .
instead , both are busy designing another round of stimulus that includes even more political and policy risks . the notion of the “ people ’s ” ” ” ” – that is , the more direct channeling of central-bank financing toward the population – has been gaining more attention from both sides of the political spectrum . other risks are already giving credence to central bankers . the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while governments ’ short-run impact on global growth of trade tariffs is compounding the task of both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies that are currently mooted might , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability , and therefore further complicate central bankers ’ task .
clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against governmental parties . he himself presided over numerous breaches , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . he resigned only after his election to parliament last may . nevertheless , the elections represented a remarkable degree of progress , at least for the time being . indeed , a large number of opposition groups have engaged in dirty tricks .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been indeed impressive . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur its all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region that is unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to the south , to china and russia . for its part , asean continues to meet some serious challenges . its combined gdp has grown , from $ 95 trillion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . over the short term , it seems to be moving like a crab – two steps forward , a single step back , to a single journey sideways . nevertheless , asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable .
much of modern economic and financial theory rests on the premise that humans are rational , thereby systematically maximizing their own happiness or , as economists call it , its “ utility . ” as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in brazil . when samuelson took on the topic in his 1947 book the topic , he did not look to brazil , but instead relied on “ revealed primacy . ” people ’s targets are exposed only by observing their economic activity . under samuelson ’s instructions , generations of economists have based their research not on any underlying thought and behavior , but only on the premise of rationality .
the new money would circumvent the financial and corporate sectors and go straight to the thirstiest horse : mid– and lower-income consumers . central-bank balance sheets have expanded , with policy rates reaching their “ near zero ” limit . with no signs of rising inflation and growth remaining tepid and fragile , many are predicting chronic , more sluggish , and some are even worried about another global recession . but policymakers have one more alternative : a shift to a “ purer ” fiscal policy in which they directly fund government spending by printing money – so-called “ helicopter drops ” – in the us . there is plenty of cheap water , it seems , but horse-trading refuses to drink .
alarmed by public reactions , harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened only to have the suspended bill confirmed when the case was closed down this march . the case went to a local court , where the judge ruled it an “ minor traffic disturbance ” and gave the driver , in effect , a two-year sentence , to a judge . over the next several months , newspapers and tv stations ran the story as it snowballed into a national obsession . it quickly became the “ rich versus poor ” story , widely cited as the example of high-level corruption . a judge ’s ruling spurred rumors he went easily because her husband linked her to senior provincial officials .
repeated military interventions by the large muslim peoples of egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey have impeded orderly political development . but those countries ’ rising middle class have started to reassert their political systems in the next direction , a testament to the power they are now enduring . that power has increased , for several reasons , most consequential in demographic terms . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median mid age – to upper twenties . with over half of these countries ’ ’ ’ ’ populations now below the age of 30 , political development has enabled them to move ahead despite recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
the objective is to implement a complex set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb legislatures ’ ability and ministers ’ ability to increase spending relentlessly . third , on the panel ’s to-do list is increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance . though latin america ’s economies are doing well today thanks to reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . rules need rules to impose limits on deficits , spending and debt , and require transparency in a way that makes the public know what ’s going on . when matched with a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could make their economic growth substantially more severe .
second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of recent gleaming innovations . all too often , they have seized on new technologies – “ distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! ” all too often , it has seized from developing countries on new technologies – “ distributing their tablets to schoolchildren ! ” this has resulted in many disappointing failed pilot projects at scale . a new report by the foundations of the prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , based at the university of oxford ’s blavatnik school of government , indicates how countries can address this issue . the report encourages them to establish a foundation of “ building blocks of digital finance ” – including basic infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
yet many countries remain poor enough to be endowed with robust growth potential , and many more , albeit the rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . this is partly because trees can not continue to grow forever : china ’s ’s ’s ’s economy could not continue growing 10 % larger each year . but , overall , there is a hard time denying that the global economy is missing the momentum . so there must be something else , holding back growth . and , partly , this is because growth is not unprecedentedly desirable : citizens may be better off with a little less of it , and a much more clean air .
in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped out in the streets of bangkok to demand new elections , but were dispersed by the army , with 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business districts , the red shirts have increased in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after more than two years , pad yellow shirts have also returned to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . pad ringleaders now denounce all politicians as corrupt and extol a virtue of the monarchy . by exploiting the guns of her anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( her periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , the organization for research and advisory , estimates that the ai-enabled ai tool will generate a $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , with pwc forecasts that by 2030 , ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy . some estimates indicate that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation on a cumulative basis . and the ai benefits for businesses would go far beyond savings , because automation would spur innovation , improve forecasting , sparing operations , and lead to improved customer service . in any technological transition , those leading the switch may not lose human sight ; there are some things that even the smartest machines never do .
as is so often the case , it is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know is that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that it therefore should specialize is one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas . because they can not do well at everything , they need to concentrate on what they do best at – that is , on their own comparative advantage . because they can not do well at everything , they need to concentrate on what they do best at – that is , on their own comparative advantage . but , while some of the ideas are intuitive or obvious , they can also be wrong and dangerous .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany made its definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit without regard for the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . this is evidently merkel ’s preferred option , at least until after her next election . the trouble is that , until now , germany was not obliged to choose . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . the situation is worsening , and , in the longer run , it is bound to become unsustainable .
both leaders gush that their two countries are now on superior terms than ever before . yet the bilateral relationship has deepened markedly lately , exemplified by last week ’s china forum , resulting in more than 25 business and other agreements covering areas , ranging from agriculture to technology . after five years of international sanctions , imposed in response to russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provided a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , on the front hand , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song , the people are brethren ; i hug a chinese , ” which mocked ill-fated early experiments at the russo-chinese union . for russia , closer ties with china are no doubt tempting .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will end in march 30 , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following a parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , with opposition voters having already viewed tusk as the only viable candidate . and that shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges to iranian interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
and you can post different prices for different times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in the london olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 any other time . you do n’t particularly want to lend to them until a day ; but , if somebody is willing to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them for a dinner party , the trouble might be worth the job . so you can set a high price to compensate for inconvenience and make money on the side . and if you want it to pay , rezz.it can help you gather with your business without feeling like a cheapskate . or you might have a set of under-used webb chairs , with a real structure for your business .
following the high-level negotiations between chinese vice vice premier liu he and us secretary of commerce robert lighthizer this month , the outstanding issues are needed to meet trump in beijing in early november . getting the deal done before the thanksgiving will be critical to undergird us business and consumer confidence in the christmas season . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump could throw a wrench part of this process . fifth , the two sides should regard trump ’s november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as his latest chance to sign the deal . i have been one of the few commentators who aired a every year that , following a five-year fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make a deal more likely than not .
european institutions , like germany , typically prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” whereas france favors the notion of “ european sovereignty . ” but both concepts are often used interchangeably , and are rarely defined precisely . in trying to clear matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as a capacity to set one ’s own priorities and make one another ’s own decisions on foreign-policy and security issues , in conjunction with the institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third-party candidates , or alone when needed . we have also analyzed likely barriers , difficulties , and conflicts should decide to pursue this objective .
in fact , eradicating poppy crops not only harm the local community and undermines the international community ’s goals , but it also fails : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation a record-high 60 % . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages with the hardest-suffering communities in the south , serving as the backbone of the deeply impoverished rural population . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys the single crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate , thus serving as the main source of income for millions of people . as a way to grapple with this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run science pilot projects to study the opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be a core component of the economic-reconstruction process .
the concept of preemptive war is poised to incite precisely that the clash of civilizations that was predicated upon a decade ago and that must be avoided . a 5 % has proclaimed war on our civilization , and is ready to engage in murder to put an end to western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace and put an end to the long humiliation of islam , which only the advent of democracy and development throughout the muslim world can make possible . yet the bush administration scares the us , too , for its part . its muslim faith counts a billion men and women around the world among its adherents .
indeed , a typical northern european taxpayer seems to support a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors . but blindly sticking to principle would have made the ecb a high-risk option . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what was called “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of distressed eurozone members ’ sovereign debt . yet , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers to hold its parliaments , with no ’ ’ approval , to a potential obligation to bail out – well , whom exactly ?
by equating isis with the fight against the soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization to great-power status . this is contributing to perceptions that isis is far more being potent than it actually plays into the hands of isis recruiters . trump has also voiced his interest in working with russia to remove isis , seemingly unoblivious to the fact that russia ’s involvement in syria focuses on propping up assad ’s regime . such a partnership could steer trump toward a deal with iran that is more than willing to fight the sunni radicals in iraq and syria . iran is currently pressuring russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-arduous effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on ending the civil war .
as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below its 2008 level . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey has laid bare not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly health care and education ) , but also that they are prepared to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , achieve them . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 individual respondents said they would favor shifts to the status quo , even though it required some sacrifices . and , at the same time , a status quo power carries urgent demands for change .
colombo – sri lanka has deservedly been praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has now grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and the education and health statistics are impressive . the government will need a set of priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but this is particularly the case for a country suffering from a steeply 30-year civil war . underlying wars , such as fighting the tamil tigers , are typically social and economic grievances , such as genuine or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately .
and a condemnation of nazism might have been misinterpreted as an assault not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s own communist regime . the western democracies , as most historians admit today , played a comparatively minor role in the great military power struggle . but any condemnations of communism would have exploited nazi propaganda as support for hitler ’s campaign effort . very few people at the vatican – true in europe at great power – had any realistic idea in those days of an immense industrial might of the united states . the pope believed that it could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither .
data traveling instantaneously worldwide are indifferent to national boundaries . i believe that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century . by its nature , data are easily overcomes with physical hurdles . networked , its effects and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-off room appears anywhere , the consequent losses stretch to the entire network .
for their part , governments in both countries have focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than more trade liberalization . because both india and china have done more to enhance trade substantially , both are viewed as globalizers by the criterion of the world bank . yet , as their experience reveals , together with the experience of many others , like south korea , taiwan , and vietnam , deep trade liberalization hardly plays a factor in fostering higher growth and expansionary trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catch-up in this simple reality . meanwhile , serious trade reform did not begin until 1991-93 .
i felt a prodigious , restless energy that i suspected he could not turn off anytime soon after i started annexing my observations , took me into a map of vietnam , and asked me to locate the areas of destruction . i sensed that this request was a tried test – one for which i was prepared to take , just as i was delivering charts with me in the forward flying air-control aircraft . he suggested that i produce a typed copy , giving me a office of the general who was out . he appeared deeply engaged but made no commentary , asking me only whether i had anything in writing . i said that i did , but that it was longhand .
in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and precision of sms weather alerts to nearby farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive information about disease outbreaks to help them maintain their livestock ’ health . currently , these types of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly shifting , particularly as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , and agricultural apps designed to gather and share agricultural information become more accessible . in egypt , for example , sudan , along with ethiopia , local extension services are shifting real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges in washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to reverse the retreat to globalization . to be sure , efforts to grasp the current slowdown have begun to emerge . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what drove trade growth over the last few decades . faltering trade , assumed it , must be the adverse trend . but the premise is simplistic , at best .
that is all the more significant in a disorderly qe climate , where china ’s role as a currency anchor might take on an even greater significance than it did at the end of the 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for major global exporters , first america , then japan , and now europe . if china joined this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would be subject to yet another source of serious instability . just as china was resisting the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 , a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion , it must stay the course today .
policymakers and leading economists must also be more responsive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among others , there should be better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . and , even with the need for fiscal policymakers to become more responsive , they could begin from a confluence of relatively high deficits and debt . prolonging the current expansion will require big care . the us needs a well-targeted approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers , particularly in congress , need to avoid major mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to promote growth .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ supervision , ” in which they monitor , analyzes , and consults about each country ’s own economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it a more focused and effective way . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nevertheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges demand a fresh glimpse of this process . this is one of the most important reforms for the fund ’s work in the 30 years since it was conceived .
the creditors ’ relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now largely replaced private-sector lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to restoring competitiveness through price and wage deflation , is too long and grueling , and whose societies risk turning asunder through the needed imposition of austerity , must abandon the monetary union temporarily . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help no longer be necessary for a long time , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . there are four steps that are needed to make this happen . first , a debt conference is needed with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forging a part of the debt .
finally , the eu should insist that the eu ’s authorities halt any politically motivated criminal cases and free those who marry for political crimes . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu . selective use of justice has so far badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation . this matters , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf agreements it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . steps in that direction would greatly improve ukraine ’s relations with the eu and nato .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , shortly after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . putin has just reciprocated with an invitation to trump to come to the kremlin . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and willingness to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit america , and in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising other american leaders ’ hackles . for many of america ’s security establishment members , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – earlier this month , europeans will head to the polls to elect the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent the country ’s 507 million people . given the perceived remoteness of the european parliament – and of widespread frustration with the european union ’s bureaucracy – the level of participation and a movement toward transnational politics is notable . how the election campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in building the first supranational political space in europe – indeed , a world – of history . to be sure , the european parliamentary election brings smaller share of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to almost 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in america ’s congressional elections .
nevertheless , the bombast has not been encased in metal , and a terrorist has been the only person who killed . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as if the chief of the fbi were personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at the garden party . highly personalized politics now form part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s “ theatre of statehood , ” which keeps royals firmly in power . yet it is only this highly personalized form of politics taken by saudi royals , which have taken issue with defecting al-qaeda members . indeed , this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia .
israeli prime minister levi eshkol used to speak seven languages , each in yiddish . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced out of government in 1974 in the wake of the yom kippur war . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much of a scholar and gentleman thought to make it – in israeli ’s phrase – to the summit of greasy bethlehem . eban could be said to have spoken ten languages , with all with an oxford/cambridge accent .
northern europe , by contrast , has adopted wages and productivity levels that made sense only as long as it spent less than one europe for every euro it earned . but whether europe as a whole avoids lost decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , and depends on whether southern european governments can regain competitiveness rapidly . as a result , southern europe has adopted the economic configuration at which its wage , prices , and productivity levels have made sense only so long as it spent € 13 to every € 12 that it earned , with northern european financing the missing euro . the process by which southern europeans became uncompetitive early on was propelled by market price signals – the incentives those created for entrepreneurs , and the way entrepreneurs viewed individually rational responses to them in macroeconomic terms . northern europeans with the money to invest were willing and able to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the southern states who wanted greece to spend ; and ample pre-2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages fast .
after all , competition between the us and china extends far beyond trade . a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including a potentially no-deal brexit and a populist won by the european parliament election in may . of course , while trump does not spare his own allies , his primary target remains china . though the us maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach . last october , american vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansions , and us military aggression .
a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and investment in infrastructure , is the heavily contingent of success . they can be countered and periodically revised away only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private companies . few policies work off the shelf and reliably , across a range of diverse settings . competitions among states and localities to attract major employers with taxes and other grants work especially badly . recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin , and new york respectively , have exploded .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular expansion . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy are missing : a clear path forward . if china is implementing a sustained , comprehensive pro-consumption stimulus , it can address its own growth challenges , reduce the risks of the financial crisis , and complete its switch to a consumption-driven , high-income , affluent middle class economy .
london – just as governments across western europe were starting bailing out the banks and their depositors , eastern europeans were watching nervously for what a global financial storm would have meant for them . two countries – hungary and ukraine – had already asked for large support packages . several more that might do so by the next month should be allowed to frozen credit markets offer no thaw . if matters continue until the end of the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries might experience serious banking crises . now that the storms have hit , europe ’s fragile bonds of european solidarity are being tested .
some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods – especially sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . the processed food industry argues , “ you need sugar to live . ” but the big question for health-care professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , because quantity is being determined by a user , whereas the quality of the industry is fixed . for example , there is consistently a ingredient with the highest score on the yale food-addiction scale , which measures humans ’ food-related cravings .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion polio vaccine doses to 575 million children in 94 countries . a tightly coordinated effort amongst the private sector and public-sector partners to deliver the oral polio vaccine to each child under the age of five has been the key to success . in each country , partner institutions including the ministry of health , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups , such as rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations , jointly and carefully planned every immunization campaign . in each of these detail , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver an otherwise inaccessible vaccine , to the refrigerators and frigates needed to keep a vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them have been counted and budgeted . globally , international donors and un agencies have worked closely with national governments , rallying the precise needs of massive pediatric immunization campaigns aimed at the reach of hundreds of millions of children .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it becomes easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . in an increasingly deal-making world , a new g6 might offer a rules-based defense . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and it is also adopted by both china and the us . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of pushing toward a united front . for example , in 2016 , the south and east eu member states that relied on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu statement about china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea .
on the contrary , corruption has been one of africa ’s endemic problems . yet the winds of globalization were supposedly blowing off bribery and inefficiency . indeed , it is a key theme in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s high-minded but failed struggle to curb it . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and making both economic efficiency and governance will improve . harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this is n’t happening .
florence – the europeans who are eager to reinvigorate the continent ’s unification process recently turned their attention to the united nations ’ founding . but there are striking parallels between america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . many , however , reject american precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then . in fact , by creating the american constitution and birth , the americans seem to offer reasons for hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe may one day be solved . others , accepting that federalist principles might well suit the solution to the problems of europe ’s common market , the despair that europeans , ” who might deploy this new political structure , are missing .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has shown that he is in control , even preening for photos in close-knit leather outfit his favorite motorcycle gang . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the moscow protests , by far the largest in many years , must continue to hold putin up at night to sprout , lest they dissipate with such unabated brutality .
the next year , the persian emperor yazdegerd iii , fled to the khorasan border province and the arab spring province of persia began , with persians grabbing arab names and translating into islam . the mass conversion to islam among persians was a first step toward establishing a first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all of the muslim lands . at various times in history , the caliphates have extended to asia , africa , and parts of europe . by may 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia have been under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the endeavor by different forces seeking to control or restore a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
to be sure , enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to have been fueled by the post-crisis recovery and the further spike in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now , all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , with the brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation beginning . the russian government ’s reluctance to tackle corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse , yet stable , political equilibrium . in may 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” scenario in russia in the coming years : as the oil price that had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , recovered , and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would revert to stagnation in the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . russia ’s ’s ’s political elite understands that it is capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , owing to the risk of runaway inflation . others , including mainstream economists like tarullo , a former chairman of the uk ’s national financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facility ” that would allow the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits when a deep recession strikes . following this reasoning , in the uk , the labour party proposed “ people ’s qe , ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . despite differences in terminology , all of these suggestions are variants of the same idea : large central-bank fiscal deficits , monetized by central banks , should be used to stimulate aggregate demand when the next slump inevitably arrives .
the bidders need a plan across two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) ; and a longer-stage operation phase at a time when toll revenues are collected to recover the costs and expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but particularly during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . most developing country , i know , are spending too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming amounted to bankable ideas for bankable projects , often a very difficult point , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or action . so , suppose a toll road project is being approved , a concession contract is being prepared , and a company bid on it .
many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than was previously expected , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will become increasingly at risk of devaluation . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change ; nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that a global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but to obtain and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive . besides , there is a clear entrepreneurial rationale for prioritizing greens finance.investors and ratings agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” such as oil - and gas-producing projects that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable .
more recently , a group of members of the parliament ( fairly a big one – 30 deputies ` ) has left most post-solidarity parties , creating the new ' polish family " party with the motto that the ruling coalition is in `` the service of brussels . '' defending `` family values '' , whatever that may mean , is possible . in practice , this movement also encourages little more than a fear of change . less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a tendency that fights for old values like honors and virtue . but here the people who were active participants in the former `` solidarity '' movement -- for them a movement of community rather than individual , a movement for public rather than private freedom -- form the new euro-antagonists bloc .
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit in facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for a study of dysfunctionality in capital markets , at the london school of economics . the researchers there argue that , in fragile speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in recent years ) , it is difficult for investors to track those managing their cash . they may see short-term returns , but they fail to grasp the full well in terms of these returns . yet they collectively have collectively extravagantly rewarded for those customers ’ expense . managers may start demanding higher and higher returns in a upturn .
brussels – the united nations is consistently ranked among the top ten countries in terms of innovation , including by insead , the global index of innovation . but , worldwide peace index ranks 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the un and the netherlands rank , respectively , on fifth , and sixth on the innovation index – just 28th and 29th for the un peace index – on this peace index . ironically , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations ; but it does not drive it onto innovation indices . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to bring about an overall breakdown of law , and order is deeply impeding creativity and innovation .
finally , the election provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . germany ’s center-right christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s ’s greens have grown stronger . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager by not from the epp , but who is in the sense of a liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them to michel barnier , who are from the epp but not a spitzenkandidat . if the council succeeds in ruling weber and his populist supporters , macron will cite this as a success . but merkel still defends weber , and , with the exception of macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s historic tenure there . annan inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on combating poverty reduction and promoting human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world and drew attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical long-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy access , and access to water . with the recent elections in the united states , and the rise of asia ’s ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world toward the most critical challenges facing our planet . aside from the longer-term challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . recent attempts at influence developments across these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes war , have failed .
that is why the disastrous free-for-all in terms of trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly upgrades to the great depression . many complain that something similar , if much in scope , is taking place today . the outfit called the world trade alert ( gta ) was at the helm , raising alarm bells about what it calls a protectionist juggernaut . the gta ’s most recent report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 with china as its most widely held goal . this number has been widely cited in the financial press .
given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the cost of social-welfare benefits for migrants ? host countries might assume the responsibility for administering benefits , such as unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and countries of origin might continue to offer advantages unrelated to the jobs relationships , such as child allowances at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrived . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give the british more than allow to reconsider their exit decisions with their heads held high . when people enter a country to earn higher wages , the pie available for distribution gets bigger ; but if they come for social-welfare benefits , the pie gets smaller .
it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing greek crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that , with no solidarity-based solution to existing debt and a partial mutualization of new greek debt , the euro can not be salvaged . the prices of the monetary union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s survival and hence that of the european project constitute a greater community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . those who oppose this because of fear of common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and the loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization – and thus its exit from the world stage . what is needed to be done in the long term has turned out to be clear . no alternative – and surely not the statusquo – will work .
for investors , the reform process may now appear impossibly long and hesitant . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has performed exceptionally quickly . the eu is not deprived of instruments – the so-called “ structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions ; it has no strategy for using them . so the outcome of months of talks might be better characterized as a “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” more bugs will need to be fixed , including new bugs found in fixes .
as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often seen as homogeneous massacres where all students can be educated on a similarly pedagogical approach . but schools must match individual children ’s needs and capacities in ways that makes learning stimulating adventure . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying . its schools are funded by local communities , and work within the framework of a national curriculum that is designed by the parliament and the government . though educational possibilities and structures have gradually been diversified , a major shortcoming in most european educational systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers , if to remain in their profession , must adhere to severe compartmentalized pedagogy .
viewed from this perspective , they are in and out of the prison system , with little chance of ever getting the legal work that enables them to escape poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home and support without hope and support . children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in prison or suffer violence or imminent death . what is crazy about this is that the u.s. has missed the obvious point at the time and has missed it for some 40 years . to break the cycle of poverty , the country needs to invest its children ’s future , rather than incarcerating the 2.3 million people annually , many for nonviolent crimes that are symptoms of poverty .
in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill gaps have not become a major problem , owing to a reasonably open-source immigration policy that has enabled the country to exploit the talent that colombia , among many other countries , has been unable to maintain . the no-residential construction boom that created helped not only to devour the labor force that left rural areas but also to achieve a remarkable loss of inequality . the comparison between the two approaches has been obvious . colombia ’s center-right policymakers used to hope that , if they enact best-practice legislation and regulation , they would come to naught . and if they do not , they might still bask in the international accolades that they receive from outside actors .
at the global level , over-spending by countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and are spending , consuming , and importing less . but over-saving countries – led by china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . so a revival in global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth much lower . moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in advanced economies , with massive budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous costs of socializing the financial system ’s losses . at best , the us is facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments are starting to feed through toward consumption and investment .
the current crisis , the fall of wall street , is towards neo-liberalism what the berlin wall ’s fall in 1989 was to communism . the global dimension of that crisis has been , surprisingly , a positive side as well . indeed , the international community is currently charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the future . so far , much of the trouble was the countries involved in cooperation . previous demands for more stringent regulation came with nothing , owing to opposition from the financial sector .
in advocating the disestatism of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the significance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . as much as possible , the liberal state should be neutral on such matters , leaving it to every citizen to tell whether it should give his financial support to the church of rome or that of one at bayreuth . it is this out of the infinite importance of this grand debate that the state should look neutral . in contrast to the militant liberalism of the french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to keep either side in the ongoing culture war against the use of the state ’s coercive power of taxation as a weapon in a struggle for men ’s souls . after all , should state ostentatiously take sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrate the ultimate doubts of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing another stark choice between the two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and world capitalism . the former , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , are on the rise . following the path of least resistance will lead to the gradual disintegration of the international financial system . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is hard to achieve on piecemeal basis , it may be an attainable in a grand bargain that reaps all of the entire financial order . a new , more sounder , multilateral system must be invented .
mario monti , the president of the european union ’s competition policy commissioner , frequently comes in the limelight , usually to popular acclaim . over the years , he has won important victories for state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the benefits they derive from his achievements are coming under threat , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . within a time of just a couple of weeks , the ecj ( to which private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions to reject proposed corporate mergers . with the case of competition giant microsoft supposedly in the offing , monti will need to rediscover his footing speedily .
however , time and time again , humanitarian assistance in africa came short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia in the 1990s . worse , these tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises were coming . then , like today , food insecurity was predictable long before it was felt against the first hunger pangs . so many proud and dignified people were stripped of their livelihoods , and were forced to count on one tiny meal daily , or none at all . drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and sufficient resources , can be averted .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relations that cross borders beyond the control of governments , everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . on this bottom board , it is also an important degree of close civilian cooperation that affects a country both the attractiveness or soft power . here the american people need the help of europeans , and it makes no sense to call this a world uni-polar , either . no government can control the outcomes without the cooperation of others .
and because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition of “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow even more cheaply than they otherwise would have been the case . the translation : a disorderly resolution of global megabanks is a illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current levels , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failure . worse still , both have the motive and the chance to make the upside even larger . this form of government support amounts to a huge implicit grant by big banks .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of a climate-secure sector . already , fossil-fuel companies and governments are facing intensifying legal pressure . dutch group urgenda , and almost 900 co-plaintiffs , have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt stricter climate policies . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint to the country by the un human rights commission , calling for an investigation by large fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility for causing climate change . fortunately , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to materialize .
a couple of years ago , for example , chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system that connecting its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its all-customer network . it decided to out-source this operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated , on-line system for managing global deliveries and sales . it is several steps that are needed to support the massive increase in online use in these other locations : * telecommunications , including the entry of new kinds of private service providers , is critical to lowering costs and disseminating benefits . as a result , national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers cut from four weeks to just one week , and the distribution cost has halved from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales .
it is often argued that monetizing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach bound to produce excessive inflation . as a result , the possibility of so-called helicopter money , while important , is becoming increasingly debated . but debates about it are riddled with confusions . so long as governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank cash , nominal demand will undoubtedly grow , produce some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes going along with the same people ) that monetary finance would not stimulate demand , because people are afraid of a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers proclaimed bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who owed what was to whom , who could have paid off their debts , and who would have gone down further . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and firms went under , not only in the united states but all over the world . in hindsight , the complacency about the run-up to the crisis was understandably unconscionably unconscionable . and yet little has changed by its aftermath . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” ” of low-business-cycle volatility since the 1980s had morphed into another great depression .
so far , they have agreed that within a year , a commission would provide different options and models for protecting the german parliament ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rights , while offering assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a safe contributor to troop deployments . but they have agreed that , within a year , a commission would give various options and models to protect the german parliament ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rights rights , while offering assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a safe contributor to troop deployments . in contrast to a few minor particulars , the consensus prevails . for some , that is a cause for ambivalence . for some , that is a cause for ambivalence .
badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists , who object to technologies on “ morally ” grounds . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . indeed , any new gm crop variety must satisfy rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . at the same time , the world health organization has confirmed that “ zero effects on human health have proven to be on the output of such foods . ”
regulators may well need to turn over to the bankruptcy laws to fix the problem . perhaps regulators will find that they need to require that the regulated have the desired contract provision . that solution will be incomplete , but because not all derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contract and the requirement . in the absence of complete coverage , one can expect the regulated to complain that they have been targeted at a competitive disadvantage . the regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action wo n’t amount to much if it is just a request by the derivatives industry to lobby against their own financial interests .
but even that was inadequate to britain ’s leaders , who tightened the rule of law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition laws in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government of the ” could be charged with sedition and potentially condemned to life imprisonment . in other words , there was no free speech for indians , either . sedition thus explicitly intended as an instrument for terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi captured his prominent victims , albeit far from his recent past . by its words , the british had concluded , in the words of a british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ a sedition law that is adequate for a people ruled by a self-selected government of his own nationality and faith can be insufficient , or in some respects unsuited , for a country under foreign rule . ”
seoul – china , already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturers , and the international-reserve-asset holder are poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( as measured in purchasing-power-parity terms ) this year . after decades of engaging with international economic institutions , including the g-20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization , china began to resemble a revisionist power seeking to fashion a new world order . indeed , the country ’s days of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . now it is using its rising clout to reshape global economic governance . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new , multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
progress on the single market has helped stimulate competitiveness . new free-trade agreements give european economies greater access to major markets worldwide . and enlargement , for example , has enhanced europe ’s security substantially . achieving the global climate deal promises not just to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . these are , by all reasonable standards , remarkable uk-led accomplishments .
a special paper on semiconductors – essential to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack obama ’s ’s council of advisers on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answer . the pcast report recommends america adopting similar tactics , calibrating export controls and inward investment limits on the basis of china ’s behavior . the report , written by an influential us business and academic ranking ( i was a member ) , proposed that american work with its allies to enforce international laws , pushing china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and boost its export controls and inward investment constraints . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in a global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already dramatically tightened safety on flows of semiconductor ip to china and deployed semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the pcast report recommends america adopting similar tactics , calibrating export controls and inward investment limits on the basis of china ’s behavior . i proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the jurisdiction of the committee on american foreign investment ( which reviews and acquisitions of indigenous firms by foreign entities ) to enforce a broader array of investments – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investment in america ’s start-ups – to match this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our continuing dependence on fossil fuels . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependence on more efficient renewable-energy systems . four decades ago , countries did not just endured the immediate economic impact of opec ’s embargo ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortfall to spur innovation . swift , and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , is designing automobiles that require little or no fossil-fuel presence , and increasing the share of renewables in electricity supply might ensure that the substantially hotter and less-happier world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . the rocky mountain institute of reinventing wildfire analysis demonstrates that such a future is achievable , offering market-driven strategy to powering an american economy 158 % larger in 2050 – with no dependence on oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed that goal , and israel has managed to intercept a third . the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( thereby absent when the united nations invaded nato in 2003 ) . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and it served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of the nuclear-armed arab reactors in warsaw . but what international responses , if any , would have started if the neutered had been highly enriched ?
at the same time , not all indicators are grim . america ’s economy reflects this dichotomy . labor markets remain mostly healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains strong in most major economies . although dollar appreciation took some pressure off non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it increased the risk of an open-ended currency war . moreover , the september surge in oil prices , raising fears of another negative growth shock , has since receded .
( others have become “ business ” leaders , but only steve has become someone well-known and admired by millions – including the romanian waiter at the british airways lounge where i am sitting now . i first met steve back in 1979 or 1980s at the ben rosen personal computer forum . for some reason , it was held at a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) . in the personal-computing trade that moved from apple ’s bulky ii to the sleek and intelligent iphone 4s ( announced a day before steve jobs ) , steve jobs was the sole true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . he inspired widespread public enthusiasm for the quality of his own products , and his personal charisma .
cambridge – america ’s ’s ’s ’s real gdp growth growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , having been a trend of 3 % average growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . since the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy has grown at an average rate of just 2.1 % a year , on average . and that shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges for us interests elsewhere in the world . which accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female ( or vice versa ) . in open-list systems , there should be a 50 % quota . one ca n’t foresee with any accuracy the impact of an increase in the quota percentages in the open-list systems that currently have effective quota legislation . but if these countries replace their open lists with closed lists , a percentage of female elected women should , with all others remaining created , grow by about 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in roughly 20 % jump in a percentage of female elected women ) in systems that currently lacks effective quota laws .
and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has sought to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . trump has systematically shunted to the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . frustrated , for example , that the us congress has denied any funding it wants for its phantasmagorical wall along its border with mexico , it has simply plucked the money from funds that congress had allocated for the us defense department . he has also flouted the us constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments , money , or personal advantage from foreign governments that do business , sometimes of an extravagant share , at his various hotels and golf clubs , and has found other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has tried to steer government-in-government deals toward favored firms , or away from those he dislikes – for example , amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post .
when the debt becomes unsustainable , there are a few possible bargaining outcomes . occasionally , lenders agree to swap old bonds for newcomers that have either led to a lower face value or to lower interest payments . as a result , few governments refuse to pay , in whatever form , to pay . on the other hand , debt-service payments are rescheduled and possibly extended over the longer term , making it time for a borrower country to regain its ability to pay . argentina defaulted on its sovereign debt in 2001 .
although ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where target flu pandemics are beginning , the likelihood of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is most cost-effective . in places like vietnam , indonesia , switzerland , and china – where a pandemic strain will most likely originate , expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure – is missing . a strategy , however , can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . the reaction in turkey , where as many as 50 potential cases have appeared in eastern ukraine , is instructive .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class . moreover , china is sitting on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it in us dollars , but also in other major currencies , owing to its large trade surpluses with the us in recent decades . it is helping to finance other countries ’ ’ ’ trade and domestic investments ( with many of its beneficiaries having large budget deficits that are reducing national saving below domestic investment ) . that has made china a crucial trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many more economies , in addition to placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . it remains the vital assembly center for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cellphones , to enable lower prices for the rest of the
even ukrainians born after 1986 understood what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat might look like . for ukraine ’s ’s ’s government , the angst is real . history offers little guidance on whether the warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . except for the balkan conflicts of the 1990 ’s , wars have not been fought on , or within , countries with nuclear-power reactors . in the case of the balkans , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s ’s ’s ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists hailed the attacks as a way to free any radioactive contents .
during the past two years or so , saudi arabia has made starkly clear that it will not easily give up its market share – to anyone . it pursued a campaign to recover its former position not only in crude terms , but also in petroleum products , natural-gas liquids , and petrochemicals . in fact , china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs for russia ’s energy resources . to this end , it has maintained sustained a price war , bolstered by a uplift in manufacturing , aimed at pushing its weaker competitors . as soon as the door to asia was opened , it was russian companies that seized the opportunity to enter downstream markets in india and indonesia , two countries critical to the saudis ’ own strategy .
indeed , attaining , prospering , and thriving every refer to experiential rewards rather than money . by this way , which sort of economy would offer this good life better ? history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial persons ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and exercising their initiative so that they could make the initiative to try something new ) and innovation humans ( imagining new things , developing new concepts into commercial products and methods , and distributing them to potential ) . engaged in such a good economy , the next participants would range from society ’s grassroots to the most advantaged . this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will develop .
( though perhaps that is n’t automation well proper – the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of customer shopping . ) for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , the ready answer is to train people for better job opportunities . but , for now , technological advances are eating the better jobs , too . a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . as a recent article in the financial times points out in two areas notoriously immune to the increase in productivity , education , and health care , technology already has declining demand for skilled labor .
in august , shooters attacked the home of an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot dead for their death , wounded by his 13-year-old daughter . last november , a roma couple killed in northeastern hungary was murdered . in april , assassinating down a roma factory worker as he walked for a position to his post . in february , the roma father and his five-year-old uba was killed ahead of their home near budapest . the house was being burned to the ground , all the way to do that .
the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . with american workers already competing against robots at home and against low-wage chinese workers abroad , disruptions in imports will just create more jobs for robots . for its part , trump should protect individual workers rather than individual jobs . a more rational approach , then , would accept twenty-first-century realities . the twenty-first-century globalization processes are over-sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrollable to rely on static measures like tariffs .
but hitler ’s hold on power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s hold on power over iran . it very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is he the latter-day hitler , and is today iran ’s equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never really had it , whereas iran could . the results of iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s recent municipal election were humiliating to both ahmadinejad and his supporters . indeed , those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany .
a second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are treated as alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . this means that until now , with european electorates insisting on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared liability will be a pipe dream . in fact , the last principle holds congruity , ensuring that decision-makers are accountable to the outcomes of their decisions . but this requires a rich set of ideas , not a unified approach .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of two major forces : the super-rich and evangelical christians . the super-rich have one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the richest households . as those policies fail , global financial markets react negatively , add uncertainty in the global economy , and there is little relief in plain sight as america enters an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . the bush team believed that they would eventually strike a balance between tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government outlays , but never explained this by the public . evangelicals were brought under so-called “ family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities , including outright payments to religious-nationalist groups for the social services they provided locally and internationally .
of course , eu member states should determine the tangible form that any such economic stabilization programs take for themselves . bolstering purchasing power and incentivizing consumption , tax cuts for low – and for medium-income households – are essential . public investment in infrastructure ( like the massive expansion of european subrailroad networks ) , together with climate preservation and environmental technologies , will also be needed . japan , in the early 1990 ’s , has waited too long to act , and missed the right opportunity to enact countermeasures that japan has yet to recover from its long stagnation . some large eu countries are on the brink of recession .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is not news to europe as a trade and investment partner . africa is also home to its strategic natural resources on the continent ’s emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well-positioned to play a pivotal role in renewables . africa is not news to europe . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is n’t news for europe .
a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is a kind of taller than putin , who had only recently reached the rank of the colonel himself . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov has passed over , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing the environment and transportation . earlier this month , putin reigned again – or , rather , crowned – in a spectacular fashions , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister again . despite his years in office , medvedev is still being known for his fancy ties and his expensive observation than his executive actions .
cambridge – government programs to subsidize pensions are in every country ’s trouble , owing to rising life expectancy and the soaring old-age dependency ratio for taxpayers . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund , ” a social-protection system , will create crises when the fund is depleted . indeed , the problem will be uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund , ” a health-care financing system , will create a crisis when the fund is exhausted . the problem will worsen in the years ahead as the adverse demographic trend increases the fiscal burden of pension and health-care financing . though the options at which time will be different from those facing other governments , policies to escape the american crisis are still relevant for other countries confronting populations ’ aging populations . here is how the american system works : through law , a payroll tax is devoted exclusively to retiree benefits .
lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows genuine sympathy with the less affluent and with foreign investors on the grounds that he has always tempered his radicalism in order to accommodate economic reality . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting scandals , helping to demonize brazilians and foreign investors alike that the us political system remains relatively stable enough to withstand open criticism . most recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ “ radicalism is incompatible with the commonsense required of someone who governs . ” indeed , while the scandals shaken brazil ’s government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that the ensuing corruption scandals provided opportunities for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action .
the two organization of american states ’ electoral observation missions that it himself invited and whose terms it accepted then refused to certify the outcome . the constitutional court , which allowed morales to run , regarded a legal legal succession ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not assume power . as a result , the bolivian military was arrested nobody . true , morales resigned when the military was told him and after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but the existing constitutional provisions of the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed .
and they resent the point of mobilizing in the streets – any hint that a clique at the top are resisted from his way . this is the sort of free democratic spirit that has operated outside of the convention that elections determine the government . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it moves very quickly through precipitating crises . it is not always consistent or rational ; it moves very quickly .
this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism , until they obeyed some simple international rules . countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with many exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , utilities ) . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from this model . financial globalization , in particular , has played havoc with the old system . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few safety valves in place , it did indeed provoke an explosive mix .
at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . you and i might depend on one another , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power is enhanced . for decades , both the us and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetry in which the us depended on them as a swing producer of oil and depended on us for ultimate military security . you and i might depend on one another , but if you depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power is heightened . so , even if america did not have any other interests in the middle east , such as israel or the nuclear non-proliferation game , an energy-import balance and export system is unlikely to free up against america ’s military expenditures , which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion a year – to protect the region ’s oil routes .
lacking any historical vision among the current generation of political leadership , the shared sense of purpose needed to compel eu citizens to feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities . for example , european commission president jean-claude juncker openly frets about deep divisions among the eu ’s member states over brexit , and questions whether “ the hungarians and poles want exactly the same thing for the germans and the french . ” at the national level , there has been craven use of referenda , such as the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing the european constitution in 2005 ; the netherlands ’ ’ ’ vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement last april ; and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each instance , the voters have declared , “ no ” – ” – outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the united kingdom , on national leaders ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ habit of blaming the eu for its domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism are a major reason for the eu ’s failing to retain broad-based public support .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how the economy was managed crumbled . that model was based politically on the creation of consensus and economically on keynesian management of keynesian demand management . today , the equivalent of the collapse has been the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which a styled party like the “ new labour party ” has embraced a powerful role for markets , particularly for predominantly deregulated financial markets . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and strong wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens there in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestinian religious landmarks are attracting growing numbers of religious tourists from around the world every year .
other countries ’ governments apparently sought to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion to which they know is likely to spread . as french cities have been burned , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france . in response , embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; televised news programs have shown hours of footage of burning cars . mayors across europe , however , have reacted more moderately , sense , and show solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to homegrown violence – to the point where they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty , thereby stave off a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral prices . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of a commodity consumed to generate an output unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will greater this year than it was last year . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is forecast to grow more than 2 % annually in real terms . to be sure , use intensity has decreased for some commodities , such as gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen since 2000 , or at the rate , as is the case for copenhagen and oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high levels . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at levels higher than global supply , prices will soar .
earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer and forced to launch a social-media campaign to locate the medicines that its treatment requires . in the automobile sector , the risk exceeds $ 3 trillion , leading to collapse in transport services due to shortages of spare parts . payment arrears on us-import arrears worth $ 2.4 billion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of government-imposed default on a $ 3.5 billion grant for pharmaceutical imports . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy .
likewise , while egypt is at the center of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also plans to reclaim a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and throughout the region as a whole . to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a western-led revolutionary process that does not challenge it directly . after all , turkey , for its part , already looks like a functioning democracy . the middle empire ” of the middle east will no longer remain a sleeping giant . to be sure , will it still have to earn the bomb , too ?
state-owned health-care companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they also resent the idea of political reform . those state controlled benefits have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything they can do with rent-seeking and corruption . if “ constitutionalized ” they simply implant the idea that the constitution amounts to an image of an aspiration rather than a set of enforceable legal privileges . the desire to restrict or protect certain forms of human activity from free markets may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unknown animal . but , in a situation in which many social fields -- such as education , health , and social services -- need quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to get their work provides the only plausible avenue for change .
the movies of bollywood , which puts its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer yet another early example . a senegalese friend has told me of his illiterate mother attending the dakar bus to watch a bollywood movie – she fails to understand hindi dialogue and can read n’t read french subtitles , yet she can still catch a spirit of movies and grasp a story , and people like her eyes at india as a result . so , does the work of indian fashion designers now striding all over the world . indian arts , classical music , and dance have much the same effect . the indian diplomat in damascus several years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as great by former president hafez al-assad was the bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since it achieved independence , arrives at an annual endeavor that consists of both the united states and india . bilateral economics , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between the us and china , but they are thorny , while making lack of resolution them much more intractable . those concerning security in afghanistan and pakistan are just treacherous , as they have ever been . some of obama ’s closest advisors have just resigned , opening an awkward national-security gap and economic gap , and a focus of his meetings with india ’s government . for india , the issues on obama ’s agenda for visiting are vast and complex , and the options for addressing them are extraordinarily limited .
thanks to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics . the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability elsewhere . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have a winner-take-all network effect , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leave less-privileged groups , classrooms , industry , and regions struggling to compete . this can invite geopolitical interference quickly deteriorating into a lose-lose scenario , like one already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected states , where governments are brittle or failing powers . according to the un high commission for refugees , more than 65 million refugees in the us last year alone were 65 million , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 .
but such a process is illegal under the 1978 spanish constitution . that constitution marked the country getting ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provided a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states explicitly , it “ is based on the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” with its sovereignty belonging , to the spanish people . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum in 2014 . in short , spain is one nation , to be indivisible .
geneva – the world needs a way to stop looking backward again . from the 2008 financial crisis , the us has squandered far too much energy trying to make a comeback in an era of rapid economic expansion . the flawed premise that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were only temporary has underpinned policies that have yielded only lackluster recoveries , while failing to address key challenges like high unemployment and rising inequality . it is time to embrace a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and tomorrow . the post-crisis era has come to an end , and a “ post-post-crisis world ” is on us .
indeed , it is notable that whereas obama ’s state of the us union address in january 2010 at least made mention doha , his address in january 2011 did n’t . obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . these have been stressed in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over signatures of nearly 50 of today ’s most influential us trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift from the doha round . america has been president captive to the country ’s workforce unions , who are buying the false narrative that trade with poor countries is increasing the ranks of the american people by driving down wages .
diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of the day . but this is no easy task in the short run , particularly in the short run . to be sure , some people even predict a double-dip recession . if it does occur , the chance of a true american default would be far higher than it is today . these new worries are raising alarm bells in china .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to yield environmental and social benefits , in addition to market-based “ return ” rates . some 1,260 companies , managing the $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are the signatories of the un ’s ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ “ ’ principles for responsible investment , ” which recognize environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and therefore the longer-term health and stability of companies and markets – as critical for investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions – a bold move that could turn capital markets around . if this trend continues , with advancement of environmental or social-policy goals enhancing the ’s value , it will reinforce a commitment to sustainability , which is already gaining traction among companies worldwide . last year , one out of every $ 6.6 trillion in assets under professional management in the united states – the largest $ 6.6 trillion in the united kingdom – has been allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , particularly for public equities .
perceptions are today that america 's unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on decline ; and a new set of powers is on the rise , bringing its own unique worldviews into global affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a very good thing . but this multipolar dynamic , too , generates instability . a more heterogeneous outlook might enrich the multilateral process and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . in international politics , perceptions matter , sometimes more than actual .
in britain and some european countries , animal welfare has become politically salient , and the pressure on parliamentary representatives has mounted . the european union has established a scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farms , and the committee has recommended banning battery cage , along with some alternative forms of close confinement by pigs and calves . some supermarket chains have even stopped carrying eggs from battery hens . a ban on the eu ’s battery cages was eventually adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the facilities where they had invested , its implementation delayed until january 1 , 2012 . to its credit , the british egg industry embraced the situation , and developed new and less vicious methods of keeping hens .
more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risks materialize , public policy could foster individuals throughout their work life by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ needs better than coaching schemes have done better . this may sound utopian ; in some ways , it is just as well . but , at a time when each digital service has become more and more personalized , why should social policies remain confined to philosophy and twentieth-century solutions ? finally , the same accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles . early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed later with points for use .
indeed , outspokenness was the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government minister , bank officer , and ngo 's have repeatedly experienced his blunt comments , just as their effusive praise is for them . it used to be that even discussing corruption in certain official circles was widely regarded as taboo . but corruption poses the single largest barrier to growth and development in a wide range of countries , especially as it diverts resources from the poor . the world bank has insisted that corruption be seen as a form of cancer , and that fighting it would be made synonymous with fight poverty .
china is not on the same page of the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is the revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is the status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes the enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have obscured the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations , promoting peace and security , remaining an exclusive preserve of a handful of countries . the g20 ’s formation , for instance , has been the policymaking of improvisation designed to defer genuine financial-sector reform .
the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary foundation ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly damaging in this respect . rising inequality of outcomes need not lead to reduced intergenerational mobility . it can lead to gridlocked , conflict , or poor policy choices . whether it depends heavily on whether important tools promoting the equality of opportunity , principally on education and health care , are universally accessible . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of opportunity giving .
last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever , creating the first truly global crowd-sourcing operation that offers equity funding to companies . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , a few specifically target clean-tech technologies could follow . if used wisely , such platforms could pick up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the emergence of the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build the blue economy . the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for african entrepreneurs to tap a huge pool of finance , not to mention connections and expertise , from small investors . other , increasingly prominent trends – for example , collaborative consumption , paying full usage , and sharing , and leasing models – might offer a similarly powerful impetus for such efforts .
in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that have inevitably fueled cholera outbreaks . the standard of care at that time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that the solutions of rehydration can not be administered widely . bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well . as many people lay dying , a pioneering doctor named dilip mahalanabis assumed a chance in a desperate situation . in 1971 , fighting had cracked down , when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , – international earth day – marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most momentous step forward for date in the global fight against climate change . in 2016 , its hottest year on record , average global temperatures stood at 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . the paris accord ’s central objective is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . but its front-anniversary darkened us president donald trump ’s escalating energy policies .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , and , at the same time , the first civilization embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities , coupled with a crisis of global responsibilities . even more succinctly , might n’t today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability to the world as a whole and for its future is the logical implication of a world ’s modern conception as controlled by scientifically identifiable entity laws – formulated for what purpose – that is , a concept that objects or seeks the deeper meaning of existence and renounces any and all metaphysics ? could humanity think mere within the boundaries of what lies within its sphere of vision , and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not but as a result of the loss of metaphysical certitude in the case of god ? is there any sense in seeking to turn the human mind to the heavens when such a turn would merely aggravate conflict on earth among the adherents of our various past ? but how to restore humanity ’s mind a shared anxiety about us if people across the globe have a very different image of this responsibility , if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ?
major reform of how the transition is financed is also needed . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition , which , though the underway , lags or stalled in many parts of the world . it washes off the gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you phase out coal , stop harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from incomes to pollution . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and big end users is critical because it expands affordable and reliable clean-energy services to everyone who needs them . those are the decisions that will drivethe transformation that the world needs .
new haven – central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial crisis looming before its mark in 2007 . and yet , though these central banks were already failing in the us even before the crisis , they should still play the leading role in preventing another crisis from recurring . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials focusing not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are the logical ones to fill that role . that is the conclusion , perhaps counterintuitive , that the squam lake group [ hy/squamlakes/] think tank of 15 academic financial economists to which i belong reached in our just-published report , fixing the financial system . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that in the group of 47 central banks found to publish the financial stability report ( fsrs ) , “ practically all ” signaled a “ positive overall assessment ” of their domestic financial system in their most recent report .
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged the moral case that should be made for sustaining it , saying that he would confront a “ much , extremely difficult ” choice . yet , seemingly convinced that daca recipients took jobs out of their citizens , he concluded that the same heart and compassion would require “ “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten ” americans . the sad truth , in making that choice may be that the us president stands to turn away from a classical american vision engrained on the pedestal of a sculpture of liberty in new york city , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that starts , “ give your tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers , and it has immeasurably strengthened america . and , even after the repeal was announced , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with hearts and compassion . ”
tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need appropriate resources to win their hard battles . they want oil and mining concessions so that they can be allocated efficiently , and that they can maximize government revenue . trying to accomplish these worthwhile tasks , while paying below-market salaries , is penny of wisdom but pound foolish . amlo ’s decision to lower the salaries of his government ’s employees has already led many high-ranking officials to seek jobs elsewhere . those who qualify for early retirement take it rather than waiting for amlo ’s cut .
moreover , global co2 emissions have reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists have identified as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would set in motion . clearly , a third industrial revolution needs the world ’s most urgent development assistance . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups will need to set up in three major areas . a first coalition , comprising a set of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewable-energy costs , at least to do so in a decade of fossil-fuel power .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures come , earth hour is hard enough to beat . first organized in sydney , australia , the local chapter of the world wildlife fund in 2007 , its popularity and level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates has exploded in recent years , to the point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has n’t touched them . at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , march 27 , just nearly one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by switching their lights for an hour . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out on to include many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from an opera house in sydney to a great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s banned city , new york city state building , london ’s great ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and the skylines of both hong kong and las vegas . what ever else might be , earth hour is undoubtedly one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed up .
even the supremacy of european law in defined areas had been accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after many others had done so . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never waned , and was apparent in cameron ’s ’s ’s speech . in essence , the british perspective was that a loose confederation of nation-states that is cooperating on business is as much as europe is as what the uk needs . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas was accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others did so . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished and become visible in cameron ’s speech .
coal-fired power is also the leading source of carbon-dioxide emissions , a major greenhouse gas responsible for addressing climate change , which causes about 150,000 premature deaths annually and poses rising threat to pervasive hazards this century and beyond . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people from extreme poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned almost 700 % of per capita income growth since 1990 . but human health comes at greater risk in the countries burning more co2 . research for the global commission on the us economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter at alone caused $ 1.23 trillion of premature deaths in china , a world of coal-consuming economies – in 2010 . a 2012 study suggests that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low - to middle-income countries , representing about 82 % of the world ’s population .
in politics this can be dangerous , for it encourages basing decisions , regardless of any popular opinion momentprevails . a call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . a few years ago , referenda are for the most profound snapshots . but occasionally , this desire seems overwhelming nowadays in “ post-modern ” democracies everywhere . true , nowadays democracy has embraced a pop culture of rapidly passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow , and always more waiting in the wings .
the best topic line tells us what the message is about , and signals the desired response : “ an invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” unfortunately , i get a lot of messages headlined , updates . or , a “ investment proposal ” on your consideration , ” or “ serve as a benchmark ? ” unless i know a person ’s name , i can not even know what company does have a point . she could , perhaps , say “ the message for us president barack obama ” were whether she sharing an open letter , but otherwise … … .
india ’s octogenarian new prime minister , manmohan singh , has recently awakened to a desperate need for renewed momentum . but it ’s far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant writer for the political economy , and a former chief economist for the imf . and yet the changes that are currently opening up could just turn things around . economists around the world have taken note of the advent of raghuram rajan as a chief economist at the imf .
at the same time , we need to establish new rules of ground for political discourse , which can empower political discourse . these can not be identi­­cal to the scientific method , but they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria by which political expression is to be tried . politicians will respect this , rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about the truth and the punishes politicians when it catches them through deliber­poring . we must abandon popper ’s tacit assumption that political discourse seeks a better understanding of reality , and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a robust commitment to pursuit the truth also requires .
explanations range from anthropological to borderline racist : indians do not have the genes , structures , stamina , the climate , whatever . there are structural and infrastructural explanations : the lack of the training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , devices , financial ones . we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is not just your eye against his , your legs against his or her spouse , but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales wo n’t do the trick : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in the medals . why do indian athletes perform so poorly ?
just as early in january 1998 , the neoconservative project for the “ new american century ” sent a letter to us then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , following his victory in 2000 , bush declared iraq to be one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive proof . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration comprised ten of the nsa ’s 25 signatories of the nsa ’s founding recent declaration of doctrines , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as us defense secretary . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received the now-declassified intelligence review stating that “ the us does not know with any precision how much we can n’t know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
r evolutions gave birth for a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the iranian leadership , formed after the revolutions , consisted of the narrow ruling stratum and the much broader supporting group that received charge from the administration and its political mobilization . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s demise , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . the clerical elite has gradually lost power for military-security groups , from whose ranks under president mahmoud ahmadinejad . the greatest difference from 2009 to 1979 was the iranian revolution itself .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of this point . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
finally , we need fact-based solutions . research shows that many girls worldwide – and , in particular , those in the global south – are simply unprepared for menarche ; education can help . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . far too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed school , because they would lose access to clean sanitary products .
under these conditions , it would become more startling if depositors did not rush to withdraw their funds from greek banks . economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , because banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender can be a monetary or a fiscal regime , with both types in doubt . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . if greece ’s deal with the eu and the imf default , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral .
on one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition on the use of force by states to seize territory from their own neighbors . for his part , russia , almost totally dependent on revenue from its energy resources , amounts to an “ single crop economy , ” with its corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health challenges . on the short run , though , the declining countries often take greater risks , and thus are more dangerous – to witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . that has created a policy dilemma . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , as well as his cyber attacks against the us and others , though aimed at making russia look great again , merely worsen the country ’s longer-run prospects .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between greece ’s federal government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all parties involved and europeans most . it can ultimately stop only with a renewed bailout of greece , or with europe ’s plunge into catastrophe . greece needs both money and reforms , both fast and within the eurozone and the eu . the governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as the failed states and economics .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill the vacuum as they do . indeed , china ’s ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries worldwide – particularly developing and emerging economies . its unilateralist approach is likely to coerce the us into playing catch-up with a china left nearly unhinged in its sustained effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vital , economically , and politically , to its own strategic interests . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill the vacuum as they do . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic fortitude over the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has spun it as an alternative hegemonic power , one coming without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing on democracy and human rights .
austin – living in a city turns you into a cannibal . urbanites become the sort of people ready to sacrifice one another to please their appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is the metaphor preferred by jean-jacques rousseau , which considered city a pit of human corruption . rousseau has been so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that it “ gives men grazing on earth meadow grass ’s meadow grass than it is of devouring every one in a city . ” urbanization inures people to rural anguish , and as townshmen bring together , its compassion capacity for others atrophies .
if not , could any other country fill that role , even partial ? looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , annual gdp growth at 8 % ( relative to gdp of the previous decade ) , and gradual consumption growth to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in dollar terms . if apple ’s recent forward guidance points to the across-the-board , the indefinite reduction in chinese consumption growth , will american consumers be able to serve as the global economy ’s sole engine for the next decade ? the question at the beginning of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario plays out .
first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many other major emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to loss of short-term borrowing and long-term lending . but china has failed to avoid a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio doubled over the last decade , from roughly 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and the relatively higher risk-adjusted returns on equity ( roe ) for investors – that contributed to more years of speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequalities . at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , with three featuring china today . yet , unlike many emerging economies , china does not struggle with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which compel it a net lender to the rest of the world .
with a target of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could grow fast . in recent decades , europe has been a driving force for energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and security implications of renewable energies . the events of the last 15 months – beginning with deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico – were followed by violence in north africa and a tragedy in japan – confront a world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional power sources and promises and advances in clean energy . reaffirming its commitment to the rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to support this goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most impressive new market opportunities in living memory .
human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when it comes to redefining protectionist barriers . for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , foodstuffs , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for public-content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual-property ( ip ) , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , it is possible to limit trade to subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping laws , foreign direct investment restrictions , and exchange-rate manipulation . in october 1982 , the french government requested that all japanese unhcr imports enter the country through its poitiers , switzerland , hundreds of miles away from the nearest sizeable shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade has remained in effect until april 1983 .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . washington , dc , to defeat populism must come to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result in a government losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually bolster their chances of being reelected by making wilder and more impossible promises – and resulting in greater economic damage . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : a powerful incentive to use debt to prop up demand ; and a shift to financing government debt through market prices , under the guise of fighting inflation . but those efforts were conducive to deception and delinquency rates , and therefore spurred a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , in asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 – as well as the recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . in the us , the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments that protect against price-fluctuation , turn private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets . these trends boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by private-banking activities unconnected to transactions in the real economy .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit review program that identifies 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then has created a cabinet subcommittee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by as much as 15 % . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed approval times by at least 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public-investment system evaluates every proposed form of public projects that use standard forms , procedures , and metrics , and rejects as many as 35 % . additional saving opportunities , to tune out at $ 400 billion annually , lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive room to accelerate approvals and land-acquiring , structuring contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improve collaborative engagement with contractors .
other categories include business ( with entities like employers , industries , and workers ) , biology , space flight , and many more , and include representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are connected . and that means better , more meaningful responses just when we search for it . they have complex relationships to other things , and by representing that information using verbs , for example , “ the societies that google acquired ” vs. “ a company that google competes with ” to represent the world more accurately . most things , it means that we do not have a role to play in isolation ; we do not expect we to think about it . you would soon do so .
the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to keep a specified proportion of female women – up from about 60 % . last year , european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call to voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign on to the gender balance goal of 40 % of female heads of state . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own boda list ready for women . this proposed mandate has been born of frustrations .
cambridge – at the beginning of their classes every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it better for someone else ’s rich country , or for a rich country ? the question typically invites considerable and inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured , limited version of the question , for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
she rescued , because she wanted enough money to retire at the same time . alternatively , low interest rates could put pressure on her ( or her pension fund ) to buy risky long-simmering bonds . given that these bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might set her on for a fall when interest rates eventually rise . indeed , america may well find itself in adding an pension crisis . given the horrendous returns on saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates might have forced her to set even larger money aside .
after all , smooth power transitions are not to be taken for granted . certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not possibly compete for a intervention in libya or the arab spring drama . what made zambia ’s election so momentous is that the challenger has just won . indeed , it has defeated an incumbent who genuinely wanted to sustain its jobs and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the outcome . and yet what has happened in zambia does matter to these developments – and thus relevant everywhere .
yet russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and the kurds , and israel and iran . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to sustain its dialogue with the various sides , it will do little to create a new regional order . as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole client state in the middle east . russia ’s regional diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power has won the syrian civilian war over president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how the strategic deployment of an unrestrained military power , witness the utter destruction of aleppo , may be a game-changer .
with the external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed in once more . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with 8 sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . yet , when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in once again , closing an external financing gap with its stunning $ 50 billion imf loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon certainly lasted for as long as the international environment remained benign . yet , once again , the external financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian electorate soon started to bristle at the reforms demanded by the imf .
indeed , encouraging signs of demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . that could take the air out of incipient asset bubbles to shape and ease pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield they need to meet their personal insurance and pension commitments . moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private-sector demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . helicopter money proponents , for their part , directly crediting citizens with central bank money , or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting the money directly into the hands of those who spend it . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money scheme might also raise inflation in a measured way , headed off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
that followed two visits that he had made to haiti during the last 18 months , as well as to a donor ’s conference he sponsored in april , which sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . he publicly defended the palestinians ’ rights to a state , but he also denounced hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to the warfare attacks , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited a un compound in gaza in order to express the un ’s grave concerns over its bombing .
boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but they are fundamental determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . furthermore , the spillover effects of advanced economies ’ exchange-rate policies extend far beyond financial shocks . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , although capital volatility has surged worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . emerging economies are also suffering from the effects on advanced countries ’ external imbalances , as well as the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last few years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy – have conducted massive external adjustments , whereas germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses .
first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of its military , and the unlikelihood of a split within its leadership makes any large-scale violence untenable , particularly given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s was substantially weakened by jihadist groups ’ operational assets in the country . finally , despite significant demographic and economic transitions in egypt during the last four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . in a country with over 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will face a vexing question that they failed for six decades to confront : what egypt is ? second , the powerful forces of political islam may now carry through passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt for participation in domestic politics through organized structures and processes .
a factor contributing to their disappearance has been a shift in thinking that transformed eastern europe ’s conflicts away from one that emphasized economic systems is the contrast between the eu ’s totalitarianism and respect for rights that completely discredited the repressive regimes linked to moscow , and helped push them apart . powerful states like china and russia do not confine themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; they are also supported by those in other countries engaged in similar practices . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s provided further advance for rights . but the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by the ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and , during the current decade , the tide seemed to have morphed against the rights cause .
as technological innovation further reduces the entry barriers for both producers and consumers , proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , reinforcing what already constitutes a spaghetti bowl of cross-border interactions and dependencies . for the longer-term health of both individual actors and the overall system , such relationships need to function effectively , on the basis of a cooperative approach that considers them credible . this is one reason why the current confrontation between the us and china has fueled fears of serious harm , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a wider “ trade war . ” if not , they risk stemming from lower levels of growth and welfare . supply chains now may have as many substantial international links as domestic ones , with a substantial share of internal demand coming to the product in part or wholly produced abroad .
if britain wants to do business with others , it will have to agree to common rules . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of its sovereignty , it will find mere grief and isolation . this is not about sovereignty or satrapy , and it is about why it has a long run on the other side . once out of the cold , it will have to decide with which the economic bloc should align , and then accept that the bloc ’s rules . it is simply a question of whether the us should prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technological transfers over those in the west or european food and agricultural standards over those in the us .
deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one big cause of a sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth means less fiscal revenue and more demand for entitlement payments , placing upward pressure on the government ’s budgets . in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base is subject to a debate . in europe , structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . a solid , durable recovery would have allowed banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would support a attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister came to power . nonetheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s destiny should decide voters rather than the courts that it made the communist party illegal . kaul reiterated this idea in a passion statement ( which the east german leaders have undoubtedly agreed in advance ) about the exclusion of west germany ’s buddhist communists from debate . but thadden himself avoided a direct response , suggesting that he would not fight alongside his sister .
liquidity remains constrained in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy comprising a long-term-investment regulatory regime . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure , investment , which is considered a relatively safe asset , because it entail little or no construction risk , and has demonstrated its potential to generate stable cash incomes . this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it for at least 15 years or longer . to overcome the barriers to investment , we propose the creation of an asset class we call “ buy-in and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . though financing for public infrastructure returned to the levels of 2008 , little is being repackaged in new projects .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . lukashenko was forced through the removal of russia ’s oil-price subsidies in 2009 to begging , borrowing , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy out of collapsing . he tricked the international monetary fund into an extension of $ 3.4 billion in credit , promising freer elections in december 2010 just to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown , when faced with the agonizing election result and the largest protests that his regime has ever seen . now , russia has taken a harder line , demanding a soaring price for borrowing , that is , by any measure , insufficient to rescue the regime . but , following a recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock seems to be coming away on its protracted misrule .
in its current struggles with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to sustain the old thought check . but , fortunately , for anyone with endness and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like a sieve is still the end of it . the great advances in china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something that all chinese celebrate . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates well in the starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights is flowing to the rest of the world , alongside the masses of chinese goods . indeed , it is becoming increasingly clear that china has opened its economy solely to maintain the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s neglect to sustain its country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s neglect to its immediate future .
at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice president for economic policy , hinted at upcoming reforms with startling speed . liu , a lord tactician , seems underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also observed , “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” these views do not just emerge from thin air , but from a perspective . given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now presented in another light .
a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in the many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between european majorities and roma , or “ gypsies ” – many of whom live in extreme poverty . the situation of 7-9 million roma live across the continent deserves the urgency of government leaders ’ decision as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . left unchanged , this persistent poverty poses the risk of turning a permanent back on european prosperity , which would be a tragedy for roma and non-roma alike . indeed , roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing , and most vulnerable minority .
in order to help find a solution , we ran a pest ( politically , economically , socially , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current circumstances and future prospects . on the political front , the key lesson is that it is up to governments to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to resolve internal security matters . but , where its actions are deficient , they are the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . it may not have to be this way , either .
new york – european parliament elections are less than four months away , and more than three years away , their outcome is higher . should they fail , the prospect of a parliament controlled by populist forces will become a reality . and this might mark the beginning of a slow process of european disintegration . pro-european forces need a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown and , most important , for a cohesive , aggressive policy to address europe ’s long-term structural problems . specifically , italy needs a program of thought on research and development , education , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population in any member country .
when asked whether america was poised to become the world ’s second-largest economy , it was reticent . elected officials everywhere have to adjust , to varying size , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . they are supposed to consider all kinds of possibilities , even disagreeable , and they prepare the residents for prospective developments . when asked whether america was poised to become the world ’s second-largest economy , it has been reticent . their reaction has been understandable : even entertaining the possibility of u.s. becoming the “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician .
mexico city – the current innovation era , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has long been hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of previous innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume – and advance – our societies . human capital is vitally important to an economics ’s success , and mexico is no exception . to maximize its benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity .
similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to roughly 2 % of total government revenue , compared with the oecd average of 4 % , and the government plans to slash it further . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , with unskilled workers paying a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . in fact , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed in favor of the savers . a 12.5 % tax is being levied on the capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risking their own equity to launch new ventures have to pay roughly 50 % of their start-up cost in taxes . for example , paypal , which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and generating economic growth , might require reducing rents .
and , though thousands – possibly tens of thousands – of protestants rallied ahead of the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for the pis in the 2015 election . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most popular support , and that the ecj is most likely impossible to enact in time . current polls show that the pis ’s popular approval ratings have risen to about 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , the civic platform . this suggests that while poles might not agree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for a free judiciary or for liberal-democratic principles generally . thus , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński can now proclaim that “ the european commission will not break poland ’s will regarding the completion of the reforms … unless we reform the judiciary ; other reforms there will have little sense , ” because sooner or later they negate , pulling out of the courts that we have now .
there is also some routine praise for both presidents they have worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and a reprise of their frustrations with those who did n’t see the world its way and obstructed solutions , such as sheila trr of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and the various pesky members of congress . the main interest lay not so much in a narrative “ chapters that cover the same ground as their past books , ” as in their policy recommendations for the future . it is amazing that they have been able to forge a consensus on quite a radical program . three proposals , in particular , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . three proposals , notably , should cause committed policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think trump is an arrogant state , with just 50 % still believing that the us and the uk have a specific relationship with the eu now that he is in office . in germany , only 6 % of respondents believe that he is qualified to hold his current office and 91 % regard him as arrogant . this may help to explain why trump ’s planned state visit to the uk has so far been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % perceive america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , led both by populist right-wing governments . the sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe .
shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton said that “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on its own , and the world can not solve them without america . ” now , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how to develop successful strategies of survival . in the sixteenth century , the control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from business and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its naval power . conventional wisdom has always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it could be a state ( or a non-state ) with the best story that wins . in his inaugural address in 2009 us president barack obama indicated that “ our power grows by its imprudent use ; our collective emanations from the justness of our cause , the force of our example , a tempering qualities of humility and self-restraint . ”
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said that “ france would be glad there if someone could force the ” parliament to reform it . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency – problems with which china today seem wrestling . the public consensus backing difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s shows that voters have come to understand and accept tradeoffs when there are no perceived alternative . the challenge for democracies , then , is to develop the mechanisms that enable them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run while undermining the democratic process alone .
my father realized that it could n’t go it alone , and that it would require better access to financing . he had to stay in nebraska , and my grandfather was saving a family farm from a banks that had already repossessed one-third of that of households . he turned to the university of nebraska , in the past , where he received his undergraduate degrees and earned hybrid corn and other upgraded seeds that the university was advancing . he then tracked inputs and weather patterns , which had rarely done during that time . the most consequential change my father made was in his thinking : coming to think about the farm not as a subsistence operation , but as a family-friendly business .
it also means applying tough co2 emissions limits on new passenger automobiles , public transportation , and the commercial sea and air france . and it means making europe working together with our auto industry , the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . second , europe must assume the lead in responsible use of resources , and it should become a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of good materials are processed into energy , or product , annually in the eu . just 0.6 billion tons of these tons , a mere 7.5 % , originate on recycling .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s next global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance in the foreign-policy debates leading to the american election , including by preparation for the public discussion paper . but the payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it has created , would be substantial . viewed from my perspective as the head of the group ’s sole european member states , the overarching message should be that everyone has to conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as the “ indispensable partner . ” this is not just a matter of semantics ; change will require that the rest of the world should re-conceive its role . the key to success will be america ’s capacity to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of which most american notions : exceptionalism .
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply the “ restoration ” of a prosperous the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century self-absorbed by it . outsiders misread this system – “ built on a clearly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy on the top ” and “ the scholar gentry to administer state ” affairs – as a recipe for stagnation . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita indicate that china ’s economic “ retardation ” started well before its encounters with the west . from 1,500 to 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain doubled . china ’s political stability and the relative absence of violence were thus reaching the detriment of economic dynamism rather than harmony with it .
morocco is well positioned to support security and development throughout northwest africa and beyond . moreover , morocco is a loyal , longstanding u.s. ally . its political stability , open economy , and balanced international relations are increasingly aligned with that of america and europe . the west would do well to start cultivating a nato-oriented partner in such a perilous , complicated region . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serve syrian refugees .
as i grow older , i am no longer certain why this matters are so important , but the male members of our species seem to think that it is . most of my fellow male faculty faculty faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types , but , in their scientific careers , they display two types of typically male behavior . the first is a compulsion to be the first to establish completely trivial facts about science . the issue of female faculty members , particularly in the fundamental sciences , has much more complicated . i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life .
this , together with the prominence of the advisory council ( which includes the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and the flynt leverett , the brookings institution ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights in the general , have combined to give the project national , regional , and international notice . some in the syrian government might realize this . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to its tharwa project . presumably , it is still too soon to be a play for it . but the project seems to represent the type of activities that can help produce a vision for change .
that growth reflects the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth arrived , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . each new bilateral deal , each chapter of globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development , and thus provide dignified opportunities for those who become economically displaced ? if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , it must be to start asking the right questions . how sustainable , and how evenly , will the economic benefits last ?
cambridge – in his euphoric moment immediately following the soviet union ’s collapse , few would presume that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural-resource endowments – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed almost to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
here currency appreciation is already occurring , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and can already claim to be over-said ( for example , brazil ) . of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , just as they did before the global financial crisis . the result is , of course , a paradoxical : the private funds that flowed to these countries are being recycled into american treasury securities through the investment of accumulated reserves . now , consider other major emerging markets , too . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks adhere to this strange financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , because yields on private funds are larger than they are on reserves ?
that , in turn , made the crisis more severe than in any country since world war ii . central banks were forced to inject unprecedented amount of money and extending credit on an unprecedented array of securities into a broader array of institutions than ever before . the final blowout came when interbank lending , which stands at the heart of the us financial system , was disrupted , because the banks were forced to husband their sources and could not trust their counterparties . the asset-backed commercial paper market arrived at a standstill , and the special-investment vehicles established by us banks to get mortgages owing to their balance sheets could no longer get outside funding . credit expansion must now follow a period of contraction , with some new credit-creating tools and practices unsound and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s big problem is that the additional signatories to the 2015 nuclear deal , officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states , remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement and to doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue adhering to it . european signatories have established a special mechanism for facilitating trade and doing business with iran in the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies had joined forces with its rivals .
in other words , some of the poorest african people in the world are paying some of the highest energy prices . according to the african progress panel estimates , poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – the money that they could spend on education , health , and productive investment . of course , the firms that provide these panels would also benefit enormously from tapping this large new market . in order to compare , the average american is paying an extra 15 cents . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technology .
that process has been unfolding for several centuries but it has accelerated in recent decades , as the select few have acquired ever-larger segments of total wealth and political clout . even the ipcc included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of all “ ghg ” emissions . the wealthiest 10 % take responsibility for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the world ’s poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions . unwilling to confront those who are destroying our planet , policymakers have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere .
and if a growth slowdown because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . with us dollar reserves growing at risk , foreign central banks can do likewise . as a result , imports account for 15 % of us gdp , whereas the us dollar is small . multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( a hypothesized tariff rate ) , you get just 1.5 % . enabling some substitutes for more expensive imported goods is possible .
had it been true that the government would get it right 19 times off from 20 , when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terrorist activities to overthrow people ’s citizenship . and yet simply removing citizenship does not address the problem of leaving at great suspected terrorist , who might then have implemented strikes elsewhere at face value , unless , as with sakr , he is killed . the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the right to citizenship , and the public good . the ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason why may ’s government prefers this course to arresting and seeking terrorist suspects . if it were true that the case with the uk government ’s decisions in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that the innocent naturalized citizen made stateless .
in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . governments should set limits on emissions , and the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions . government and business collectively should fund new research and development to drive costs even lower . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further the cost of renewable-energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream use of like electric vehicles , electric stoves and cooking land , and a new hydrogen economy . as old fossil-fuel power stations age and close down , clean power generation should be replaced with competitive local renewable-energy auctions .
in the alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might finally prove the workable workable soup . what the mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and rising influence outside its own borders . they have development challenges , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovative innovation , with a vital stake in the ways that post-wwii global institutions and rules should change . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with the brusses ( the brics , minus russia ) . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s looming absence from the multilateral scene will serve as a catalyst for fresh thinking on global challenges .
when the fed saw the weak upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policies , ” a combination of large-scale purchases of long-term us securities ( quantitative easing ) with its promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period . the objective was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting increase in their prices fueling the fall in household wealth and consumer spending . too little was done to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . much of the “ stimulus ” has merely financed increased us spending by state governments that would lend in other ways . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending more to the national debt than to gdp .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk do have this in common : they prefer to see europe as cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to any closer union . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of the euro ’s supporters to explain the difference between this uncontested policy and full european participation . as a result , denmark may well be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . indeed , danish voters saw most of the advantages in holding european membership already due to the danish krone of the ’s unchanged links first to the dm , then to europe over the last 15 years .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only constraint to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must first move toward denuclearization before any form of economic assistance on its part is offered . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . we need not suppose that these goals can not be pursued in parallel . on the contrary , a victory in north korea that assent may be impossible to win in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably erode the union ’s soul and the european project as a whole . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic hardship has already led to a massive distribution of conflict . what once was a relationship among equals has given way to parity between debtors and creditors . and no one should doubt that both the eu and its voters mean what they say .
in the section of a “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and consumers ’ economies of scale , a firm that sets executives in market share gains a near-destructive edge . the larger the market , the larger the cost advantage , is equally valuable . unless its competitors take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps -- such as those taken by microsoft against netscape , its competitor in the internet browser market , by pouring a fortune to create its internet explorer , and then to distribute it for free – the first firm to establish the dominant market position will reap high profits in the way that its industry lasts as long as its industry lasts . the larger the " new economy " becomes the standard ; it is the simplest to figure out how to use , the simplest to seek support , and the one that does work best with other products ( which is , obviously , designed to work best with it ) . moreover , tech-produced information goods are also available to consumers .
this is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how much to admit , and it should implement organized ways to facilitate their entry . creating safe and legal pathways for refugees to reach europe is one of the most urgent priority . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europeans ( by enabling it to vet applicants to do the same ) . this does not imply that each vulnerable migrant must be embraced .
in recent years , american politics and political institutions around the world have become more polarized than the distributive of opinion in the american public would suggest . in fact , citizens ’ behavior seems not to have changed as dramatically as they have their reactions to poll questions . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say the quality of life there is an excellent or good thing ; 40 % say they work with others in their own community is what they do best to do . in fact , the situation was even exacerbated by the post-2008 downturn . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not just where we are but , where we have been , and where we might be heading . it is a distinction to take an enormous gap . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories of global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , this approach can lead to desensitization . specifically , innovation can drive the abatement of pollution . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while offering equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter gunship to absorb the city with the well-known innovative capacity , while addressing the congestion . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy for addressing air pollution , with the support obtained from the central government .
maybe , but so far , the conventional solutions have proven unworkable , even disastrous . everything else has already failed , perhaps the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians alike . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall agreement – could resume . meanwhile , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society .
and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of saving operation . first , the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) must serve to salvage the banking system like member states . despite this added task , the size of a rescue package could remain exactly the same , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would reduce the amount that governments need . bringing a banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it in the hands of national institutions , would be a fundamental improvement that helps to restore confidence . this would allow a sovereign-debt restructuring without precipitating a banking crisis .
on the contrary , at the outset , she may be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect but is little liked . second , without an effective and responsible opposition , governments can become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on remaining supporters . third , at some point over the coming year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . while nobody knows that corbyn ’s position will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who favor him , may decide that the eu is a wealthy man of the club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . in this scenario , leaders of the far-right constituent assembly are probably thinking that they can dispense with offers of disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway .
the bailout was brought about by aig ’s large losses on its derivative trades with its financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so that the government allocated a substantial amount of extra capital spending two months later . at that point , the government asked aig to take a voluntary , “ haircut ” ” – that is , to accept a discount on the amount owed to them . when some of these parties refused , the government backed down , and financed the aig payment of all its own derivative obligations fully . feeling the weak hand it made because it was n’t prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations .
israel has long believed that it has little interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes some things clearer . israel will feel free to retaliate on a cross-border strike , and it will resume rocket fire on intra-country civilian targets . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hopes that have been stirred by the 1990 ’s of the peace process have been thoroughly dashed . in fact , gaza has been ruled by an totally hostile regime .
new york – the aberrant length in us history has been the 100 or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally transform societies . in the late 1970s , growth began to decelerate in many other advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that had supercharged with action . human lives became ever more productive , and lifelong expectancies rose dramatically . the global population grew more than 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over subsequent 50 years , with economies growing at a far faster rate than it did in previous centuries . technological innovation and demography today are headwind rather than tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can n’t save the day .
the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is a likelier exemplar of this blinkered legacy . sadly , the chances that the ldp will reform , or that the dpj will develop into a responsible cabinet party in the foreseeable future , seem slim . both parties include the conservatives and liberals , the defense hawks , and the doves . the core of japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , on the grounds that the parties ’ divisions are really devoid of any setting of consistent ideological and political differences . japan appears condemned to tolerate chronic , no-nonsense political trench warfare until some crisis forces a realignment of political parties along their ideological and policy lines .
and , because his suspension of parliament has angered the rebel conservatives , who used to balked at pulling down their own form of government , a no-confidence vote now stands a greater chance of accomplishment . that would have required that conservative rebels , the opposition liberal free democrats ( fdp ) , together with the mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s management to rally behind it – a tall order . moreover , labour ’s working-class leader , jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . but bringing down may ’s government would not be enough to stop a no-deal brexit . a motley cohort of rebels also would need to support the creation of a caretaker government that seeks brexit extending , call a general election , and possibly also legislate for a second referendum .
friedman ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual capital ( ip ) rights , which rely entirely on research and development in the us ( much of it underpinned by federal government funding ) . those profits should , therefore , be taxed in the us . this arrangement has also required the typically vigilant america ’s internal revenue service in order to play its role . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to allow it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs . curiously , the irs picks out not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip returns .
each has gained ( or maintained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing its electoral base . pekos have been enabled by the modern news media , which , scrambling to share in the audience , streamline , and sensationalize issues . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , and generates the electoral polarization on which the pekos have the fed . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to win the most exposure . this political strategy has no doubt been effective .
in order to gauge public opinion ahead of a decision scheduled for later this year on whether to permit commercial planting gm crops , the british government has sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public discussions around the country . local governments and other organizations have held hundreds of extra public conferences , and a broad range of journalists have called in the us and elsewhere . britons had their say during the summer about whether they want gene-spliced behavior or , to be sure , genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their respective domains , and food . that suggestion may be amusing coming from a baby , but there is nothing funny when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complex policies involving science and technology . the head of the british organizing committee , a professor malcolm grant , has called them a “ unique experiment to try to identify which ordinary people really think once heard all of the arguments . ”
nowadays , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy the votes with whom he would destroy the eu . in fact , the kremlin is financing many such parties . there are other kremlin supporters , including corporate leaders , who intend to return to business as usual with russia , and the academic apologists for the soviet union , whom it spent 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with whom they would be hung . and , with public opinion polls exposing a substantial minority of europeans to putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato seems set to set genuine headway .
in germany alone , construction projects say an average of more than 75 hectares a day . likewise , improper agricultural practices are to blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates soils and alter their patterns . likewise , improper agricultural practices are holding the blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizers , for example , decimates soil inhabiting and changing the soil . at the same time , concerns about global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels are increasing , in turn driving the value of land – an absence that has escaped international investors ’ attention . according to the world bank ’s estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – plots used by millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples – have suffered from massive investments .
that is an odd idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded america ’s weaknesses . an american war against iran is plausible only as a blatant and imminent iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as a major us terrorist attack , an invasion of an us ally in the gulf , or a disruption of the free flow of middle east oil to that of the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . convinced that it will judge the us president by his success in containing the iranian threat , fraternal also assumes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . iran , like north korea , will resume testing obama ’s capacity to construct an international alliance that aims to put pressure on defiant states .
it is here that germany should take pause to look into its record . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and does n’t count as expenditures – continue to obstruct the investments required to modernize public-sector companies , placing a major roadblock in the way of land reform . for example , when a government borrows to buy land , it treats its debts , but its offsetting transaction when it sells the land through the mortgages effectively goes unrecognized . while germany ’s president does not have to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day management , his vote would undoubtedly be influential . the imf ’s economic framework still does not provide for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in a slump .
washington , dc – donald trump has been officially inaugurated as us president , yet questions about russia ’s interference in us elections are bound to fade away . to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin favored trump by his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for the outcome and placing great lengths , and incurring great risks , to help bring it about . yet one key question often loses in the fray : why did russian president vladimir putin do so ? in our view , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ ’ ’ conclusion that , by helping trump , the kremlin has been advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not entirely compelling .
nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in its convergence of vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances india ’s ease of doing business , while targeting improved delivery of welfare regimes . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an 8-8.5 % rate within the next fiscal year . it is fair to say that the usually staid statistics department has stole the thunder from that year ’s gdp . no budget change might generate such a blinkered , cost-free acceleration in growth .
after the failure of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity scheme in the 1930s ( which had a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized its military power and relied on strategic alliances with the american people . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , and it spent substantial resources to make itself attractive overseas . japan , for its part , has achieved economic growth , achieved its goal ; but the country has developed only modest military and soft-power support . in its first decades , communist china built its military strength , simultaneously employing the soft power of the maoist revolutionary doctrine and the third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but , following the exhaustion of the maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms for undermining economic development .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as taking on a retired member of the politburo standing committee , china ’s most powerful body . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on that progress , agreeing to maintain the reform momentum . regulatory reforms are starting to mitigate shadow-banking risk , reviving even some ghost towns . in order to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even hard bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests resisting change . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since this year , and the authorities appear well on the path to hitting the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in keeping with the spirit of the passage of time , us governments introduce business-criteria for measuring efficiency -- and “ success , ” more generally , -- public services . this means , first and foremost , that they set performance goals . so the ministers proclaim that street crime will halved last spring , or that the proportion of every generation going to universities has increased to more than 50 % within five years . meanwhile , waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by a third within two years . this method of governance makes it seems that we can hold policymakers accountable , by establishing whether targets were reached or not .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo has invented a new extremism , the soccer game in which he is a sole player . instead of kicking the ball to win , he aims to make his opponent scores . this helps to explain why , with over half of his term left behind , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds just 7 % popularity ratings today – the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since the 1980 ’s , when democracy took hold . toledo assumed the presidency by planning to dismantle the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administrations and to end the reign of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . toledo argued that he would send all dishonest officials to jail – words that captured the imagination of peruvians yearning to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
a mistake in the us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to president gerald ford in his debates with jimmy carter in 1976 . in 2004 , shortly before the us presidential election , osama bin laden unleashed a video tape that may have helped president bush beat senator john kerry . out of bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more useful for his effort to recruit supporters than kerry might have been . a different event that might turn the tables would be an “ october surprise ” associated with terrorism , which might switch the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , the republicans ’ stronger tack . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debates with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? but i see a practical turning point in every one of this that no one has yet a broached . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance to politics bring about an ideal solution to the problem of seeking an heir for putin ? that search , after all , threatens to divide a nation ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s elite . let us compare the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty globally by 2030 relies entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and in general undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the many poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help the world ’s coal miners in west virginia . the powerful will always manage , but the feebleness puts the burden of a less nostalgic protectionism , which erodes the very benefits of globalization . such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable populations .
without question , the state has been integral to china ’s evolution , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions that have developed . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in preventing the social stability required to sustain economic development . moreover , the chinese state has settled coordinating issues that are not easily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in the developing world , where market institutions and administrative abilities may be at different stages of development . at the same time , state involvement is needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets on their own can not be counted upon to do on their own . others argue that spurring the innovations needed to reach a high-income status requires that the state become less like a market participant , and that markets , on their own , can no longer count
but economic urgency does not translate into a policy response that has been painfully slow or non-existent . egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . almost all of egypt ’s political stakeholders , as in the other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but the country ’s leaders stalling the terms of the much-needed international monetary fund loan . meanwhile , the government had not followed through on additional reforms , and the required tax increases passed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that , among the near-one-half that is reducing public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts or caps , the withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . these adjustment measures are frequently adopted without examining their social impact . how many poor children will miss out on education because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ? how many poor children will suffer – or die – from poor food shortages and healthcare ? and yet , all of this might well have to start happening very well .
indeed , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future could play out in two different ways . the first scenario is grim : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , political discontent surges , and newcomers have become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps they take to statism that frustration embolden right-wing populists and could lead to political violence by both sides . the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails . if , in the worst-case scenario , a terrorist attack was to develop – particularly one that might , to some extent , attack – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
successful political transitions are also helped , if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” protests and the resulting transition . what is clear is that the interest of a “ military as an institution ” depends on the army ’s ability to establish much greater leeway for separation from the regime . in this respect , the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated in cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration is a positive development . on the other hand , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horse – to charge themselves into cairo ’s tahrir square and attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators amounted to a classical “ military ” as governmental ” movement . at that point , a democratic transition would most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters .
nevertheless , the extent of american cooperation with the icc has far exceeded even the constructive role that the obama administration has proposed . evidently , american policymakers have also become increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . but does uganda ’s operation , following so closely in the libya intervention , herald a police role for the americans whenever the un or the icc – which , lacking their own police force , rely on its own members , and interstate cooperation – the judges it needs ? given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in american courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both an international and a domestic political assault . at the same time , they would function in close partnership with ugandan forces .
so why are n’t americans feeling more alarm at their country ’s widening income inequality ? part of the reason they are doing not is that most americans fail to recognize what goes on . deep at the heart of american ideology and culture are constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish you make with self-notice ; that individuals should count on themselves , not the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make way for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed do so not through luck and corruption but through preparation and industry . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy , and that are real . one poll found that 19 % of americans think their incomes put them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that a 20 % hope they would get at the top 1 % of someday .
stockholm – our generation has a singular opportunity , and we do n’t want it . if we set our brains back , we might be the first in human history to abandon our children nothing : no matter how low greenhouse-gas emissions , zero poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course world leaders set when they met at the un in new york on september 25 to adopt the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere , and then to providing power for everyone . they emerged from the biggest summit at the un in history , a “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the largest consultations that the un has ever undertaken .
when an algorithm does n’t do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing the hateful and threatening speech at the whomever they choose . victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of safety and even self-worth being eroded , removed from social media altogether . so the noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone , while less polarizing , fewer privileged voices waste , even while providing the smart , nuanced perspectives that can actually enrich public debates . victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of safety , and even self-worth , have eroded , removing oneself from social media altogether . meanwhile , the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , became an object of conspiracy theories and a target of intense harassment once every one has been present at two terrorist attacks within two weeks of each other .
i single out america not because it is unique in its neglecting it , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . in fact , few rich countries do better than america 's . africans do n't vote ; they do n't buy us products ; they do n't risk violence . they are , quite simply , poor , starving , and disease-ridden people . indeed , africans barely count on american politics .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s critical distinction between risk and insecurity . hence , as he put it in 1932 , one can have “ no escape from prolonged and possibly interminable depression , ” except through direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – that is , what the obama administration is rightly doing . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate has deeper even intensified . in my view , keynes had a major input from economic theory to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness ” of the basis of knowledge upon which our prospective yield estimates have to be made . krugman is hampered by pointing a crash toward “ irrationality , ” which , as cochrane puts it , is no theory .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes appear mutually exclusive , making the decisions of which path to exceedingly challenging . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interest merge , presenting an opportunity that should not be missed . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and former us treasury secretary – with the world response to climate change . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , for example , because the consequences of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature alterations , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by a global poor , who has also benefitted from the economic activities that cause it .
hallyday was the child of the generation that watched america gis enter paris , and that it was , in fact , invented for itself an american ascendance . it was the consummate artist of the french scene , chameleon beamed out on satellite television , dripping with fake berliners and real glitz , an artist who , like the novelist , confessed as a way of lying . abiding in each of us was the johnny that has moved us all : young spent with a traveling act like a gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , the character out of modiano , who , between bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts bestowed on him by his abandoned son . and then there was “ ’60s ” rocker with the eyes of the sad wolker and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in the romans , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to live at the edge of every form of excess . and on that day , he lamented his absence as part of a show , somehow making us forget that it was no longer with the us .
moreover , post-wwii capitalism kept full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . the keys to this period of growth and happiness were a strong social-welfare system , and mostly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in every part of a globalized world . job insecurity back then was mostly unknown , and mass poverty disappeared . above all , every advanced economy pursued policies geared toward providing high wages that would guarantee high consumption and therefore rapid growth . of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but not to financial crises of the type we are seeing regularly today .
that seems to reflect a stance expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne earlier this month , which helped to set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europeans needed more fiscal integration , but without the united kingdom ; that there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and perhaps ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . what we have in mind are matter and associated , but not absorbed .
barack obama argues that america “ stands with ” those who support a free assembly . what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future , both to reassure and account for the protesters ’ safety . that will be welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by american actions , and to opposition leader and journalists languishing in us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protests . in this crisis , america ’s president should form a united front , with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely about how to follow , sustain , and encourage those iranians who have or may yet be apprehended , or worse . natan sharansky has said that this tactic – western tracking and demanding accountability to ensure that individual internal dissenters – has helped break up the soviet union .
russia should be treated as a major power , which means consultations on vital global issues . russia ’s membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , combat corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make more sense , for a similar reason . there should also be some understanding of what the russians and the russian people have gone through more than two decades . losing a country and a special place in the world is the kind of trauma that could lead to the emergence of extreme , potentially violent , nationalism .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that an center-left party can neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas ; and lula ’s ’s presidency has failed to challenge that view . the biggest are not always the legal institutions upon which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a society that fails , or a polity , to implode . by taking a new set of problems , investors are looking for all kinds of risks . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies worldwide , and brazil ’s middle-class growth . whatever the case , for the key brazilian left leaders , including rousseff , state capitalism has become part of the solution rather than a fundamental problem .
when things can be produced , used , broken/grabbed headlines , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation drops dramatically . obviously , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenue – and not just apple ’s . recycled materials will not need to be delivered to centralized processing centers and then passed up to factories . products will not have to be made in these factories , and then shipped off to customers or inventory centers . one big loser in that world will be freighted ( along with junkyards , logistics corporations , and centralized recycling operation ) .
achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to the right nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and the rising prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , wracked by crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global population of human population is projected to surpass nine billion , on average . london – in the 1960 ’s – a green revolution that featured developing high-yielding crop varieties , the spread of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural output worldwide . to its credit , surmounting these challenges will not be easy .
in reality , turkey needs europe as much as europeans need turkey . turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt around the world . indeed , for many years , domestic critics of erdoğan ’s administration have been denouncing what they described as the regime ’s seeming putsch ” . europe is for turkey “ a principle of moderation , ” and an enticement to remain democratic . but the course of history may change fast .
on the contrary , the experience indicates that governments are often struggling to align public spending with underlying or mounting issues , such as the public-health threat until it reaches a crisis . that is just over 0.5 % of annual us military budget of roughly $ 718 billion . in fact , last year , 580,000 cancer deaths exceed the estimated 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war i , world war i , the kosovo war , and the gulf war . more people have died from cancer in the us during the last year than are fought with one another . yet us government spending on cervical cancer averages around $ 4 billion a year .
my hope was that the us would have the temerity to transcend our perceived humiliation and begin looking deep into our national psyche , ask the great question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a place ? ” i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . my hope was that the us would have the nerve to overcome our perceived humiliation and begin appearing deep into our national psyche , asking the big question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a way ? ” so far , the us is no closer than the us following its assault on its response to that question , because it can not even find the nerve with whom it needs to ask . dealing with that question has become increasingly frustrating for me , because i have run out of plausible explanations . a journalist visiting saudi arabia ’s united kingdom recently asked me why five of the six us students it interviewed at the university of king saud still believed that al qaida was not responsible for attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon in america last year ?
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a global phenomenon of increasing wealth concentration at the top greatly more pronounced in many arab countries . whereas tunisia was an extreme case of a regime furthering the economic interests of a tiny insiders clique , the pattern has been widespread . that is why the knee-jerk , simplistic , “ washington consensus ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization is unsuitable for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political imperative for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not an afterthought . top incomes in these countries have come largely from political patronage , rather than innovation and hard work .
few countries are more closely integrated into the postwar order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based trading system . but that is no longer the case , either . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means that it feels acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and the punitive tariffs imposed by major trading partners . trump ’s protectionist policies are thus challenging the entire german economic model , as it has ever existed since the 1950s . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are challenging not only trade , but also america ’s departure from a pax americana itself .
with inequality also rising , many in the french are rightly upset that labor is taxed far more than capital gains . the simplest way to achieve these ends would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . france has some of the highest labor costs on the eu ’s hourly labor , and the natural consequence is tepid hiring . during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % annually and on reducing the unemployment rate to below 6 % . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs .
nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at about 80 % . in early december , putin signed the federal budget for 2015 , which foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and the fiscal deficit , amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , together with tough economic sanctions imposed by the united states and europe , meant that , by the end of the month , the government was predicting a 4 % - of-gdp decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and after budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will again spend 70 % of the federal reserve fund accrued during the past decade , or so when oil prices were high . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will again default , by late 2016 .
given that libra will take the form of private money linked to a basket of relatively stable major currencies , how could this work in practice ? as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to sending money to be as simple as sending a text message . ” a standard “ efficient market ” analysis helps us to answer that question , because , in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . but , of course , libra is selling as much more . if argentina ’s people could shift from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with a single touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that secure asset at the number of the first signs of trouble in the domestic economy ?
at the same time , the recently rising euro helped to keep down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorate somewhat in the euro-zone region . yields on the ten-year german bond that might be expected to continue higher because of worsening inflationary expectations during this period barely moved . that is the large plus for sustaining us economic recovery . throughout april , the rise of inflationary expectations , as well as the euro ’s appreciation , occurred more or less concurrently . so , should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in american financial assets at certain points in time , a rising euro will help to shield european interest rates from the effects .
the united kingdom looks older and more stable ; but today scotland is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with the future set to be determined by the 2014 scottish referendum . italy and germany have been nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful group of small and medium-size political units . this political entity is a precise counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . of the six bigger eu member states , only france has a truly well-defined centralized political system . when stressed , a big surface bifurcates in great britain is part of the debate , but then a disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments .
money , therefore , concerns about trust , without which no company can function . we do not grow up aspiring to work for crooks and liars . we believe in the banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust the government when it says that 100 are 100 , rather than $ 10 or $ 50 . just when we obey our leaders orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers , and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs and other banks because we believe that their leaders would be fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their trading practices . once that trust breaks , bad things start to happen .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , rather than the rage – in stark contrast to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . ultimately , with the ossified structure , the soviet union could not have been salvaged ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental piece of decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . yet , like francis and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer . despite rising to power with the support of the kgb , he did not fully surrender his thought processes to machine , in the manner by which president vladimir putin clearly did . likewise , far from making a mold to the democratic machine , sanders is working to pulling the party back “ to the social-democratic left , ” where he belongs .
whatever economics , taking that route may be more difficult today than ever before : with so many developing nations becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that embrace what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . those in the developing world who believe there have been history of bargaining for bad faith have a powerful case in point . america ’s ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . unsurprisingly , rich country negotiators throw around large numbers when describing the gains from even the imperfect agreement . that leaves developing countries facing a hard choice : do they be better at accepting the crumbs they are offered to them ?
princeton – recently , physicists at the large group collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s ’s ’s ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva across the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) , announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson is , indeed , a higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers predict that the lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that swallow the earth in a matter of months . today , the standard model for particle physics is fully complete , with the exception of one critical mass : black holes . latter-day nostradamuses have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , of high-energy particle physics experiments . of course , these prophets were neither the first nor the last of their species .
during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried hard to tame hyperinflation , which reached 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of the “ genuine plan , ” launched in 1994 , managed to suppress annual price growth to a “ acceptable ” 22 % by the next year . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a reformer , was elected president ( he took office in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concerns about price stability . today , with central bankers in advanced countries discussing the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation . in fact , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s ’s world economic forum has been grim . most chastened by the big risks , were the world ’s bankers . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the global stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” looked less omniscient than they did a short while earlier . and it was not just these bankers who served at the davos doghouse this year , but also their own regulators – central bankers . those who think that globalization , technology , and a market economy will solve the global ’s problems seemed subdued .
as a result , banks and politics are profoundly intertwined across the advanced economies . now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the european periphery , government defaults threaten to take down the big banks . the european central bank has lent heavily to the ecb “ liquidity ” finance for its banks , which they use to buy even larger government debt . this holds down interest rates on that short run debt but creates even bigger potential losses , where potential defaults are allowed . diamond has discovered that , ultimately , policymakers trump central bankers – at least in the uk .
despite low average gdp growth rates , per capita incomes in the bottom quintile rose at over 6 % per year in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste , and inefficiency in existing manufacturing systems . this might have been addressed by fine-tuning labor ’s allocation of infrastructure investment and government management between the public and private sectors , with the crowding goal of crowding in the latter . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should have improved in the years ahead .
according to the most recent data running through july or august for most countries , there are only ” ” ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in that figure ) . the share of countries that register outright deflation in consumer prices ( the greens ) is higher in 2015 than it is for countries that experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of the overall gdp ) . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the remainder . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the remainder . in the period leading up to oil shocks from the 1970s until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of countries recorded an inflation rate above 10 % .
on the european continent , this has been on display since the age of the 1970s . for the most part , the quick fixes they have imposed have been n’t much successful . on higher education , there is certainly an alternative . in france , one can simply let universities get even worse . overcrowded classrooms in often deficient physical surroundings without any requisite facilities have led to longer study periods , deteriorating quality of degrees , and lots of unhappiness among both students and professors .
two million kosovars have suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . for years , they have attempted to express their grievances through peaceful means . only war ’s bloodshed , sad to claim , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . as a political activist in last days in yugoslavia , i attempted to build on the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . kosovo ’s need to free itself from milosevic ’s grip has been so visible for a decade .
new york – the phenomenon has taken many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . but , with syria has immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives has already been , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt ’s return to power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has been the only major success . at the same time , efforts at nation-building along secular lines mirrored by egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , resulting in the establishment of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria , which lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the arab world ’s simultaneous revolts were the result of neither political inclination nor reflecting a broad popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what would be the most secular and fairest elections in any of the region .
berlin – the way we eat in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unfair , and unsustainable . far too much of the meat that we consume is being produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . worldwide , 300 million tons of meat is produced annually , and the un food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual figure will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such large amounts of meat can only be produced on a industrial scale , at a high cost in social , political , and ecological costs . and now our industrial model of meat production is being export to the global south , notably india and china , where meat consumption is rising among these countries of the emerging middle class .
cambridge – for a while , the four horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policymaking fields have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having studied the first , i found that tax cuts for the first time are a positive-sum contributor to economic growth . though i regarded the “ second area ” in less detail , evidence suggests that regulation , at best , is only a minor contributor to growth . the third area matters greatly , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so worrying . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program nowadays does not play a role in the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
but there is a time when this tailwind subsides , and china begins to converge on the so-called frontier of advanced economies . without powerful innovations , sustaining us productivity growth will be an uphill battle . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . as gordon notes , there have been long-overdue productivity dividends associated with urbanization , a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges confronting america and others .
sadly , the opportunity on the right puerto rico ’s fiscal boat has not been seized . on the contrary , the court-supervised oversight board recently certified a fresh fiscal plan and deal on behalf of holders of bonds issued by puerto rico ’s pressing interest fund ( cofina ) , which could place the island in its debt straitjacket indefinitely . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort that relies on an unrealistic assessment of a commonwealth ’s economic conditions . at $ 17.8 billion , the stationing stock of cofina bond ( backed up by future sales-tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of global debt under the new fiscal plan . but the plan was originally projected to depress economic activity even further , and it fails to lay the proper foundation for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need .
we raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about by changes in government policies , and raised billions of dollars to respond to their fundamental needs . this , in turn , has helped to rescue countless lives . humanitarian efforts remain strengthened , including through a fast track funding mechanism , the un ’s central emergency response fund . ten years on , what impact has the principles had on displaced people ? the achievements are notable , if not sufficient .
“ the man who dies wealthy , ” he is often cited as saying , “ dies the disgraced . ” wearing the watch that cost 200 times more than one that does a better job of keeping time says something else , even while boasting people who do not self-regulate in a relatively poor country . essentially , such a person is said ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just plain selfish . andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen of the era , has was blunt at his personal moral judgments . we can adapt that judgment to a man or a woman who wears $ 30,000 watch or buys similar luxury goods like a $ 12,000 class .
in this monumental work , totaling about 1,900 pages , parfit calls into question the image of a near-universally assumed economist and many philosophers from david hume onward , that the role of reason is to tell us how to get what we want , but not to tell us what to want . on the contrary , parfit argued , desires may be irrational . on the one hand , parfit argued , desires may turn out to be irrational . if the reasons and persons could readily acquire three separate books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , while the third , in the press when parfit died , has just emerged . it shows that both “ overall ” and “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counterintuitive implications . but then , so does every other response that has been proposed since parfit animated the problem , and other philosophers started offering his own solutions .
seeking mental health care should be just as routine and unspectacular as seeking treatments for high blood pressure , diabetes , or heart status . moreover , we must rein in mental health inequity , an frequently ignored topic . this is often an issue in lower-income communities , where populations may face more exposure to pathology , and often confront highest barriers to receiving care , in part owing to a lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos . by acknowledging the issues of mental health and wellness at work , we can make just another difference in our homes , schools , and communities simultaneously .
experts argue that the likelihood of a terrorist attack because of a dubai takeover is tiny . because of this , americans can not afford to take even the minutest of their ports ’ chances , the consequences of which are too staggering to contemplate . experts argue that the probabilities of a terrorist attack because of a dubai takeover are small . but the damage inflicted by strikes might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the rare kinds of ways that terrorists might smuggle in america for nuclear weapons . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack also be small , either .
but the four political developments that have reshaped the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , the revolutions across the arab world and nato ’s military intervention in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have an amazing impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived the transatlantic burden of burden sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to take place in the united states in 13 years appears to be taking place not only in an election year , but also as a result of president barack obama ’s hometown .
we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding “ yes . ” yet smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion tiny farms account for 60 % of global agriculture output , and provide up to 80 % of food supplies in developing countries . together , they are managing the vast areas of our planet , including an estimated 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on such farmers , many desperately poor , to assume a leading role in addressing both the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? will they produce more food while protecting the natural environment ?
one such reform , in turn , would be to expand access to foreign investment . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investment investments in more than 40 industries designated “ critical for national-security ” to their governments . this ban , while beneficial for industry insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets , and , more critical , on the new technologies that follow its financial flows . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation , as has the country ’s ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions by the european union and nato . lifting these constraints would not only give the economy an easier boost , but also deliver higher long-term gdp growth .
brussels – over the course of the negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the brexit referendum , british prime minister david cameron gained an opt-out clause , on the grounds that the decision would move toward an eu of ever-closer union . should he triumph over the referendum and persuade eu voters to remain , this would send a dangerous signal to eastern europe ’s illiberal politicians . the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been somewhat fraught . to be sure , back in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany were still extremely hesitant about eu enlargement . but uk support had its catch up : british leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union , ” which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty , made no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership in order to prevent deepening european integration .
and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights , so that they can gain the insight required to defend people from forces that might seek to turn individuals into disposable pieces . and future workers will require trained in their ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . to succeed , educators should study economic and political history avoid becoming a blind determinists . educators are preparing students for this future future , to start now . economists need to learn from engineering students as engineers build the future workforces .
severe breaches can result from reprimands or dismissals . in my own experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with writers and producers themselves . sporadic complaints and warnings from above allow them to develop counterintuitive cases of acceptable content , thereby creating evidence that they are free from offending material from the start . in effect , they have become largely self-regulating . the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; lower-level resources have little collaborative input and no right of appeals .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s government has committed to an extension of the dpj for 95 days , until september 27 to make a longest permanent session in the japanese parliament of postwar history . for the last 39 years , japanese representatives at the g-7 focused attention on economic discussions at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s fellow leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and recommended action , or , more often , inaction . abe ’s actions in the diet are drawing the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with the japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills that allows for a reinterpretation of japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constitution that allows the country to play a greater role not only in advancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement on hold until the russian and american presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that the talks could not be left in the hands of nato machinery alone . in germany ’s parliament , then-chancellor of the exchequer announced that yeltsin had , after his operation , “ to renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i were in a position to reach agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister big enough , we would now refrain firmly from dealing with the important nato-eu matter in such a framework in such a way that moscow does not feel where we are creating fiat accompli . ” this visit yielded yet another appeal , not to the rushing of nato enlargement . in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato should place enlargement on hold until the russian and american presidential elections passed .
only that , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , the body size , the durability of vital organs , and the chronic illness . together , these changes are triggering changes in human consciousness , too . yet , as with any change of such magnitude , there are holdouts . the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , comprising a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and individual responsibility . in a world without utopia , individual liberty is supreme values .
london – the gravity of the eurozone crisis has finally sunk in . governments and international financial institutions have scrambled to lay the solution , within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . many questions have so far been answered of design ; implementation will be at least as challenging . the stakes could not have been higher , at least for now . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not just the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc – while much of the developed world is properly worried about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding them , and securing – for individuals the “ right to be forgotten , ” ” many worldwide are presenting a very different question : what about the right that should be seen ?
the swiss federal public-health office has also overseen an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependence on a major one . drug-related violence has consumed untold figures for victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , latin america , and mexico . health-care professionals have taken the lead in calling for the government to shift its focus from the arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies that are premised on the scientific evidence of what works . the swiss federal office ’s public health office has also overseen an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency on significant time . the swiss have implemented methadone programs and , to prevent the spread of hiv , created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and established safe injection rooms on a large scale . the swiss have examined its government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eyes .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances such as artificial intelligence will have on how our economies and labor markets operate has long been a hot topic . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on markets ’ workings is their ability to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading through an micro second “ ahead ” of everyone else . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book man does n’t apply : a guide to the wealth and work in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed me with the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers like uber , which thus appropriate every penny of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . a new type of reinforced uber might soon emerge , integrating automobile , bus , ship , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into just a single super-app .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping $ 4.5 billion – lack of safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . in a world of limited resources , policymakers must prioritize those investments , including differentiating the necessary from the desirable . to that end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping $ 4.5 trillion , for example – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . global health and conservation professionals must collaborate more actively to identify these solutions , and to convince policymakers to pursue them .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not electricity usage . indeed , big companies in almost every field are vulnerable , as start-ups become better-equipped , competitive , and capable , like bigger firms , of reaching customers and their users everywhere . firms in every industry now need to invest in understanding the new technology , so they are poised to seize opportunities or mount efficient defense fast . true , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and are constantly assessing how innovations will influence the status quo , specifically their profit pools . moreover , disruptive technologies will unleash value to shift among economic sectors , as occurred when television overtook radio or , more recently , when the online media gained predominance over publication .
by 2013 , that share had fallen , to 13.5 % , to 13.5 % . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global goals , which are expected to meet by 2030 . the challenge amounts to this generation has ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete goals . though the developing world had an estimated 1.7 billion more people than in 1991 , 209 million far fewer were starving them . in fact , over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed nearly two billion more people adequately – no small feat .
fifteen people were killed , and many more wounded , in what is remembered as the peterson massacre . given the recent memory of a violent french revolution , the british elite has reluctantly agreed on a period of democratizing reform . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished the rotten boroughs and extended the franchise of a new middle class ( the working class , as well as women , would have to wait ) . likewise , the united states went so far as a period of robin laden ’s industrialization during the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s . the rapacious and corruption of that era was satirized by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the tale of today .
narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : throughout the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , devoid of a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . what makes matters so much worse in britain , by contrast , is the string of gross mistakes of political judgment during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . but , thanks to farage – and the singular ism that overtook over the governing conservative party – an act of economic self-harm that evidently runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . while the vanquished remains side waged an economic campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave side waged a form of culture war by exaggerating fears of immigration , and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” moderate leaders everywhere must respond not only to the loss of millions , but also to cultural pessimism and politicians ’ dismissal as they are simply for themselves ” giving succor the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
every firm and entrepreneurial association of sorts must decide on the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . every firm and entrepreneurial association must determine the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many are contradictory and overlapping . the new court empowers the reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflicts and duplications . ande proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution .
just a year ago , everybody gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what we stand up against : a corrupt government that sought to command the life and work of life , and a dispose of state assets at its will . for so far as formal legal rights exist , no court could be relied on to enforce such rights when our rulers saw their interests as challenged . in evicting the regime , we believed , this form of absolutism was stopped . instead , those who benefited most from regime corruptions insisted that their property rights they stolen were violated . how did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ?
moreover , health workers visited mothers during the pregnancy , providing them with free medical services . they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and received more employment in higher-paying , skilled jobs . another community nearby had the same program , except that micronutrient supplement was rendered without a protein . one community was provided with the constant access to a micronutrient and protein supplement , say , atole . for the children who have received their atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half .
from day one , the coalition has been riven by feuds . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the coalition members blamed each other . such squabbling , it seems , are postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : under all three , infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power . in a way , ministers act like adversaries rather than partners .
though italy ’s economy was at full employment , it rebelled against the status quo in the name of dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s tsarist china . they were joined by well-organized trade unions that helped the movement reach its factional mass , at least temporarily . the difference between then and now is that those take to the street to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but by desperation . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike that of french brexit , in which it amounts to a foot soldiers ’ act . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and gumming .
feeling that , in acting as he has done , she has been faithful to her most cherished values and beliefs . she remembers everything at her peril , and also regrets nothing . and she has in no doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me the most to watch , even then , the beginnings of the tribal conflict , and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she worries about incipient human-rights violations , especially of women ’s rights , that she fears will multiply .
though china ’s charm offensive is highly recent , its contours are already clear . facing escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . the most prominent feature , then , is trade . as the largest trading partner of multiple asian countries , china will offer attractive terms of trade with its neighbors , much as it did with singapore . over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , embracing an eu containment strategy .
london – shorting ” is a tactic well known among the financial cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in the expectation of making profits when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short ” a government by borrowing its current prices , in the hope of selling it later , at a lower price , and by pocketing the differential . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i believe that it will soon be up for a game over the greeks . for my part , i borrow , € 10 million of greece ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried last month ’s “ character assassination ” by the online news media and demanding that the government establish the regulatory framework for such unruly new sector . indeed , inadequate limits allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s heterogeneous tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some generated with tacit support – and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , many people launched news web sites exclusively for financial gain . taking advantage of the news media ’s implicit authority , king abdullah decried any potentially damaging rumor about individuals or groups with purposes and influence , then offering to remove the narrative in exchange for the payment of advertisement or direct cash .
the poison of terrorism has now ripped off the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi joint headquarters . yet the bombing raises political questions that demand answers . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the arab world ’s leading accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush again made clear his determination to wage a war on terrorism . other leaders declared that the un should not abandon its mission .
but they are genuinely illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to these regions ’ populations attests . now , russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia , should the west recognizes kosovo ’s province as an independent nation . to the extent that most residents of abkhazia and south ossetia have already enjoy russian citizenship , recognizing these two regions ’ sovereignty would be completely fictitious , and effectively an interim measure on the path toward their full annexation of russia . in order to bolster russia ’s political influence over the georgian regions of the south , gazprom , without taking up the trouble in asking for georgian democratically elected leaders , has started constructing a gas pipeline that connects russia and south ossetia directly . while there has been no discontinuity in gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia , this step is required that the kremlin can ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
so , long as trump does well for business , they appear untroubled by the fact that he represents the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values and to its image and interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded into thinking that they could , in their view , control their own country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that in the face of hitler ’s strange behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . the sad reality is that many of today ’s ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history , thinking and acting as if interests and values were totally disconnected from each other in the real world . they say , they say , trump might go a little too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he has asked them the right questions .
the eu ’s privacy crackdown is threatening to undermine all of this . not only will it generate administrative burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model among many european companies ’s most distinguished online firms . even more worryingly , this would open the door for supply-side provisions on the benign , low-risk , data-mining that drives online advertising . online advertising allows eu citizens more than ever to access information , educational material , commerce canals , and entertainment sites without pay for it directly ; and the amounts being spent on it in europe are increasing more rapidly . industry ’s revenue has more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall european economy has stagnated .
nowadays , bloody good period donates sanitary products – including “ pads and tampons , ” as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for us asylum-seekers every month . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation have been provided for girls in just eight schools , attendance has rose by an average of 17 % . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda has found that adolescent girls often missed school , because they have less access to clean sanitary products . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation have been provided to girls in only eight schools , attendance has rose by an average of 17 % . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation has to be broken , so that women and girls can acquire the sanitary products they need at the affordable price .
a new law regulating the judiciary , for example , had been the revolution ’s demand since its early weeks . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” served as a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and therefore politically expensive – step to break the impasse . he backed down twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his efforts , under pressure from the supreme council of civilian armed forces , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and once he attempted to remove politicized public prosecutor by making egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . but , for many of his revolutionaries , there were alternative ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and overturn the judiciary . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could hit down a code free , rendering the effort meaningless .
moreover , it amounts to treachery of america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices to deliver , say , a nuclear-explosive bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 has not been shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to that of the us . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . in foreign policy , american secretary of state rex tillerson signaled a revival of the monroe doctrine – the concept of “ american primacy in the western hemisphere ” that aims to keep its european competitors – in central and south america in order to curb china ’s rising influence .
at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund needs to be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting address macroeconomic-policy spillovers and in providing crisis-free insurance . policymakers in advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than attempting to cure the symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . unless they support strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile in managing capital inflows . in other emerging markets , too , the key challenge is to ensure that any set of macroeconomic and structural policies advances common goals .
the result was surplus labor conditions at the center – and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to surplus labor in the early-stage developing world , where it suppresses per capita income growth ( over time ) , even as the us economy expands . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable services sectors , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . a decline in labor bargaining power and a falling real minimum wage may have added to income polarization as well , though these are supposedly secondary factors . while the headline-grabbing challenges are well documented , america ’s leaders largely failed to recognize the full struggles of middle-class households , far fewer of which effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class are largely the result of two factors : rapid white-collar losses – and blue-collar jobs to automation , and a shift of middle - and lower-value-added manufacturing to lower-labor-cost countries .
zurich – finland ’s central-bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy-making framework . the upcoming change of leadership at the institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund governing managing managing managing managing director since 2011 – is likely to succeed mario draghi as acting president – provides an important opportunity to heed the call . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , an area where history seemed to have all but ended . as a result , such scenarios were unimaginable until only recently . nonetheless , dramatic change has arrived in europe in an effort . one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and capacity established by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free largely realized .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . batang toru is just one of the many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially deemed environmentally sound , despite posing severe environmental risks . for example , construction is nearly complete on a railroad line through kenya ’s celebrated nairobi national park , despite public outrage over an “ incomplete ” environmental impact assessment .
in many ways , these steps have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to influence the real economy has declined . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 subnational national governments , with little to no for structural or fiscal-policy coordination . today – and for the foreseeable future – that domestic inflation is increasingly affected globally , rather than local , political developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy are far more influential than monetary policy . for the ecb , this generates an especially severe challenge .
beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than the nearby countryside in the daytime , and 5.5 ºc warmer at night . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we can see the true effect of the urban heat island there . there are even more dramatic increases in tokyo , too . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the waters of the neighboring countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that affected not only the downtown area , but also covering some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing large cities are in asia .
a growing minority started to chase intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms were become the new sources of community , and gyms were only a few years ago . the sweat of one ’s little brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often a conspicuous measure of consumption . and as coworkers started to come together , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental wellbeing . some people saw these changes happening , and worried .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on proposed quotas . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda in 18 eu countries . some , such as the danish people ’s party ( epp ) , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to secede from the eurozone , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved to be particularly divisive .
the main problem , though , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest , america ’s labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility toward trade . from the start of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has proved inadequate . he has said repeatedly that us exports are good for the us : they create jobs . but american exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to trump that he will let others lose their jobs . he needs reminding americans that us imports are also good : he can no doubt ask his audience to think of jobs in ups cargo airplanes , freight trains , and trucks carrying imports to america ’s interior .
it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . now , it was thought healthily promethean to turn the distribution of wealth into money and put it to work to make more money because by doing that one was benefiting humanity . this inspired the american way of life , in which money invariably speaks . the end of capitalism means simply putting money out to listen . usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against divine .
rather than focusing on treatments that works , the polish government choose to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers , located in the depths of the pis , which has very little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments , too , have been reluctant to imprison drug users . resolving the drug use through the criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb the demand side ; it has been at a time when usage rates have failed to crumble . by driving its users underground , the criminalization is contributing to the deepening public-health crisis . poland is also choosing to treat even the smallest number of medicines as criminality , as evidenced by the fact that 60 % of people convicted for drug-related possession in poland are marijuana smokers .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risk-off experiment . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer explainable via fundamental economic data . key interest rates have remained near zero for the next six years now . the unintended consequences of a policy become increasingly visible will become increasingly tangible with the united states federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 ultra-loose us monetary policy . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , and monetary policy is a sign of rapid growth .
in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union , and many others to police major sea-lanes threatened with pirates . nato is developing its ballistic-missile-defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against a grave and growing threat . the alliances have evolved into a true security-management organization , which is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and , in countries around the world , it carries tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising them on how to bring military forces under democratic control , and on working closely with the un to prevent harm to children . the threats have shifted , becoming more global .
meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of the dying – and deadly – fossil-fuel industry . describing a shift toward electric vehicles like job killer , trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchases – such as the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit . china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel imports has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out . to encourage sales , us buyers are exempted from us sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – a $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , foreseeing the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are providing a generous subsidy to domestic manufacturing .
the measure can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortive measures , making it slightly perilous . provided that it is non-discriminatory , such a border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with the rules governing world trade organization . but a cost-benefit tax would be extremely difficult in practice . it would necessitate , for instance , calculating the fiscal equivalent of regulatory ceilings . moreover , a tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most .
ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . moreover , article 138 would enable unified representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank . eurozone countries , along with others , were willing to join the euro in the future ( the “ eurozone plus ” ) might simply decide to use the legal means already available for increased cooperation . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the scope of this provision by which the eu says that “ the [ european ] council … shall … adopt measures concrete ” for the [ european member states , ” and that “ only [ european ] member states … participate in the vote ” is wide . the group could then expand cooperation to include three additional policy areas :
complicating matters further , the two sides base their arguments on human rights . for example , some of the ban ’s supporters argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one is subjected to torture or to cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , has warned that a ban would effectively transform judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject to six years in prison . for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center has countered that circumcision is a part of muslim faith , and that the gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to a “ contravenance [ of ] religious liberty . ” gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has the right to believe in what they wish , ” but he insists that “ the rights of the children come above the right to believe .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of some major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . of course , entering any adversary ’s network , and distorting attacks creates the possibility of escalation . “ persistent engagement ” can , however , help deterrence in such difficult cases . but it is impossible for policymakers to rein in classic instruments of nuclear deterrence , punishment , and denial to assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to entanglement mechanisms and norms .
here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward with a framework for deepening political union and stronger governance among the eurozone ’s member states . nevertheless , more will be required to restore financial stability , such as enlarging europe ’s total firepower for the european financial stability facility . acknowledgement of a stricter , more rigorous stability pact is also imperative for greater integration . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to a long-term economic competitiveness that is ultimately determined by value-addition to goods and services . moreover , if the us wants the eu to emerge to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between more austerity and more pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be solved .
in 2007 , the volume of american shadow-banking transactions exceeded that of american conventional banking assets . with the us dollar , the financial stability board estimates that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone stands at a rate of $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom for $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , so did the debt burden . shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to lower-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises . ultimately , it is funded via retail bank deposits , wealth-management products , and private capital .
in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . in 2011 , he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome . clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are a number of factors worth considering : the rise of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent opponents ; and major political differences between a centrist american president and a congress that has dominated more than ever on behalf of extreme ideas . but obama himself bears a large part of the blame .
with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is spiraling out of control . as economists like mit ’s david autor have shown , the impact of that in advanced countries can be both bad for some workers and good for company profits . but it can be overwhelmingly good for any developing country , which fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and uses the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in infrastructure and skills . china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without the trade-offs initially fueled by labor-cost discrepancies . looking ahead , however , this type of trade will probably become less important .
beijing – just how quickly is china ’s population aging and what is a lower share of the working-age population really mean for the country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most of the demographic predictions for china rely on the country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged over 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of national statistics suggest that the tfr has been less than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ much newly published report , the world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr , to just 1.4 , in 2006 , placing it among the lower birth rate . a long period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging , and its working-age population ’s growth is slowing . can – and should – do something , especially to the country ’s “ one child ” policy , slowing the trend ?
until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging-market and developing countries alike tended to target their exchange rates . after the monetarist approach failed , it switched to targeting us inflation . but they have repeatedly missed their targets . many then switched to inflation targeting ; but , more often than not , they tend to miss these targets . the problem with such monetary-policy targeting approaches is that while a particular numerical target might be reasonable when it is established , the subsequent unexpected developments often make the goal hard for a living with a choice .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign-insolvency processes as quickly as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . if you are lending to a friend , it will no longer be a friend of mine ; it will be impossible . in fact , the dangers that europeans now face is far greater than those posed by mere potential financial crises . if the european union ’s national governments are to help one another in the great depression , they should unilaterally grant humanitarian aid , without conditionality and without redemption . unless that wisdom is heeded , holding europe together will be impossible .
finally , orbán and his supporters retain their grip on power , partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for his eroding hungarian democracy ; yet trump recently welcomed him into the white house by describing it as “ respected around europe . ” trump ’s republican party , for its part , is using similar tactics . trump and his advisers , evidently , have learned a great deal from orbán regarding racist immigration policies and how to smear a democracy . they are not making america great or even good ; they are making it hungarian .
whereas orbán has invoked economic pressure to force the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ an enemy of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . worse , orbán has undermined the independence of hungary ’s civil service , and has thoroughly politicized the kremlin ’s law-enforcement administration . by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , beginning to capture the us department of justice , and has committed himself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is now well along his quest to corrupt the rule of law in america . while orbán has pursued economic pressure to force an end to the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ an enemy of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . trump does much the same , with the result that america ’s government now loses roughly 94 % of its regulatory court cases .
“ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast its location in munich , and the program told you that it was overwhelmingly in the gulf of mexico , then right off florida , that it did n’t mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off the border with florida . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues and instead to use a map showing that munich looks squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing any other data and claims by millions of rather dry germans does not mean that you are brilliant . instead , it means that you erred in your program , assumptions , or input data – all of them testable . but it is not clear from the ayyadurai ’s article that data were used , and there is no validation of a model .
the sum of its headline commitment has been impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp . but , in the autumn of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state made no consider the creation of a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled on a package of national measures to stabilize the national banking system one by a two-to-one margin . in other words : europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem . experience has shown that only an acute crisis can compel european leaders to cooperate in a concerted effort .
after the civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a wave of eastern refugees , india began supporting rebel groups there . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil district . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . both sides were fighting again in 1971 , though kashmir was not the focus .
whereas pandemics seem suddenly , spread quickly , raising immense fears of an imminent threat , tb has disseminated slowly but consistently , for the tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . with the rise of hiv in the 1980 ’s that compromises the immune system , tb has reemerged , and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people worldwide suffer from co-infection of hiv drugs and the mycobacterium tuberculosis , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining opposition to conventional antibiotics and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as to delaying diagnosis and drug sensitivity determination . treating tb requires at least three drugs administered over least six months .
europe ’s strongest military power by far , france has thwarted any attempt to pool europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for a western-defense-defense organization . the pitfalls of european fiscal union ’s strengthening of the eu do not end there . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european constitution , which could have marked the beginning of the process of political unification . ironically , continued progress toward fiscal union would make political union more unlikely for one simple but crucial reason : france .
now , central banks must reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , no matter how legally mandated , to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , not least because of another new operational burden run on many central banks : natural and micro-prudential supervision . they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal – for example , it can have lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for a while ) and a strong interest in protecting his or her reputation . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ independence , and policy conflicts all of which might affect the behavior of financial intermediaries , by encouraging them to assume greater risk . the limits of inflation-targeting targeting are now clear .
relative to the developed world , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive firms . under standard economic reasoning , this is rather than an optimal set of reforms . if the small , unproductive firms are closed down and larger , more productive firms have hired their workers , total output and well-being will rise . this should happen automatically through the competition ’s invisible hand , for the more productive firms should be able to deliver a better product at a lower price , while lou workers with higher wages . so , why does n’t this happen routinely in developing countries ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has shifted to president jiang zemin ’s successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most consequential moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was the 1998 appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . mr zhu was china ’s jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric – a man celebrated for its candor ; his global sophistication ; and his insistence on performance . even before he became premier , mr. zhu , as china ’s central bank president , was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth during the 1990 ’s and masterminds about his successful struggle against inflation . indeed , given the post ’s evident significance in recent years , the selection of mr. zhu ’s replacement may have been of even more significance than president jiang ’s passing of center .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s ’s ’s exports and imports . but , in part because several african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are shifting their focus from the business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the top 11 african economies should have reached more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but far behind china or india ) . twenty-three bourses are currently at work in africa , with their combined market capitalization returning from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s gdp ) in late 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchange . for some analysts , the rise of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems partly from the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges .
some countries suffer as skilled workers emigrate . but the failure to develop the mechanisms that allow migrants to use their skills puts even more harm . to establish national , regional , and global standards is not easy , but it is absolutely necessary . trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs ; they should be able to do so . trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs ; they should be able to do so .
in contrast to trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to roughly one-quarter of the voters . its coalition of the old french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as has occurred in the united states and the united kingdom . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to a large number of french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . fillon , for his part , can probably muster the same level of support , and may even be able to skim votes from le pen , given that some 8 % of primary voters have described him as the national front ’s backers . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the september debates , when he suggested he favors forming a european government .
for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s largest moral authority , ahead of the pope . polish mps have repeatedly shown their impulsiveness , and they support the pis . he pursues power , without considering the consequences for its actions . polish media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder will only undermine the pis . generations of poles have participated in charity ’s fundraising drives .
new york – the latest us fast-food hamburger you ate might cost you another to nothing . but what did the tomato slice slice on that burger cost the worker , who has received it there ? almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , costs can seem shockingly high . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . appalling wages are just the start .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being selected as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the “ chinese people dream of living the same good life for everyone else ” of the world . china ’s haunting propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not demonstrating enough loyalty and respect for their new party ’s chief , was quickly hijacked by the slogan ; the chinese dream was replaced by a “ china model ” in official political branding . whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious effort to ensure that the “ china dream ” has come true . sadly , china propagandists who would double as the censors possess a perverse ability to discredit anything they attempt to label . xi has said little of a “ china dream ” since .
even in animals , whose genes are more readily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , a tiny fruit fly , there can not be a simple single to-one correspondence between a gene and behavioral trait . instead , a wide variety of genes influence each characteristic . fruit fly genes are surprisingly similar to our own -- as it is to those of most other creatures . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own . indeed , they can not , in the sense of genetic experimentation on man 's own .
environmental degradation , particularly deforestation , is accelerating , and corruption is running rampant , with money from opaque sources flowing into cambodia ’s casinos , its banks , and the real-estate market . gone are the days when strong esg performance has been a neat bonus for investors . pension trustees and fund managers are now insisting that the companies in which they invest operate on an ethical , transparent way that they limit reputational risk . emerging-market funds ’ investment decisions are thus increasingly being satisfied with rigorous esg screenings , which , following just 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of passing through . cambodia is currently outliving its natural resources – including timber , the rubber , and sand – for private gain .
after all , in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a shared army failed in 1954 to highlight that economics shared ground to be the key to european integration . whereas the british were particularly open about the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic concerns . at the time of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown a pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical advantages of peace and prosperity for britain .
quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own vis-à-vis the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak . ” this is the dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the enlightenment values and the constitution of liberty . from the perspective of fundamental values , such is the thing of the west . the us found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe found a new adversary helping it integrate in the united states .
the most saryusz-wolski may realistically hope for is some cabinet position in poland . may it replace the widely criticized pis foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . the most the pis , for its part , might hope for is that some sort of coalition of poland ( for example , those ruled by the social democrats ) would propose another alternative to the tusk whom eu member states would elect to prevent escalation of the eu ’s conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely revert to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be kaczyński ’s sanction . indeed , he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful morusz-wolski ” in his effort to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat to the pis faces .
i can not help but recall the situation in june 1992 , when a slight majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now the eu is again at the iranian stew . but this time , it is hard to see a way out that offered a second referendum . therefore , the problem lies with iran . renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because it would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else .
even were banks healthy , the process of deleveraging and associated wealth losses mean that , more likely than not , the economy as a whole will remain weak . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , more bank losses . yet experiences around the world indicate that this is a risky outlook . the issues are not limited to the us , which is one for the american economy . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises .
but , even as it has stepped up its capacity to provide military forces for the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made clear that it sees little as a military power . indeed , german policymakers continue to believe that the political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying the further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that take into account the actions and potential contributions of non-state actors . for the time being , germany is likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks would most likely be emancipating . this would be a wise choice , and it might be a moment to address it .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity over the next several decades , they will have to find ways to prevent current economic activity from rising an already unsustainable strain of ecological debt . for this to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to be managed wisely . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill some of the gap via global trade , lest they be willing to pay for essential imports . the mediterranean region ’s unparalleled , breathtaking natural capital has been one of its great assets – the reason that more than 200 million tourists flock to the region every year , procure the region ’s economies . overtaking resources or even failing to manage them successfully , countries inevitably saps the region ’s economic strengths .
come the presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters will elect a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s success will ultimately depend on her campaign effectiveness in further defining her character along these lines . but she must convincingly manage her practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , worsening education performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . ms. park once pledged to provide grants to working-class families from elementary school to university years , with contending that local universities should be empowered with greater autonomy . she favors engagement with the politics and the six-party talks , such as how to settle nuclear hardship .
its income will grow consistently around it if the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . and that kind of growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . up-front gradualism has to be the name of the game . a fiscal compact like the one endorsed recently is helpful to anchor expectations about future adjustment , but only if a new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . and adjustment must be wedded to a growth strategy .
more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation would generate enough private-sector confidence that spending by households and firms would more than offset lower spending by governments . more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation will generate enough growth in private-sector confidence that gains in spending by households and firms will more than offset lower spending by governments . the oecd , nevertheless , has governments not been forced to consolidate too rapidly in a sluggish global recovery . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will impede us economic growth . second , under the g-20 ’s “ mutual assessment process , ” the international monetary fund has suggested that the united nations is cutting its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than envisaged , above $ 400 billion in additional annual cuts . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and buy more of its exports .
but it did the same thing for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with reference to him , and in the language of spirit , lay humanism . to most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was rather a daily immersion in falsehood , through spiritual depravity , and material corruption . this is one reason why postcommunist societies are showing neither a nobility or a disinterest of disinterest with the disinterest with the west . i admit myself of seeing communism 's legacy with more skepticism . totalitarian pressure did indeed form exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom the religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude .
under kim , the bank has propagated the simplistic notion that fossil fuels are always damaging , that coal must be forbidden ; that “ climate aid ” is the solution . just because the world bank ’s climate focus is also at the odds about what a world of its poorest citizens really want . when the united nations asked almost ten million people worldwide to list its priorities , some of them emphasized improved education and health care , lower corruption , better job opportunities , and affordable food . after all , global warming has now come about some 16 issues ; in some cases , china has reached the stage . the evidence makes clear that direct policies are far more effective .
in fact , the world ’s co2 emissions from the energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per person per 7.2 billion inhabitants in the iea tabulation ) , with american emissions almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and sneers at the name for some reasons , too ) . trump carries about the paris accord ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions stand at 1.6 tons , just one-tenth america ’s level . he complains that the us has already provided well over $ 1 billion without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion amounts to a contribution of $ 3.08 per american . consider the most recent data for the year 2014 from the international energy agency ’s 2016 us energy statistics .
as one wag put it , “ we encounter the un , and it is us ! ” sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . what hard power the un has to say and borrow from its member states . and when they can not reach agreement on a course of action , it is difficult for an organization to operate . true , un secretary general ban ki moon can make such speeches , convene meetings , and propose actions , but his role is more a secretary general than a common one .
perhaps for this reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france , america ’s foreign secretary of state , and armenia ’s presidents and azerbaijan . a meeting of presidents , after all , is an ultimate negotiating forum and must lead to a genuine , sustainable achievement . otherwise , no amount of negotiation can help to set the caucasus straight – undermining a key restraint that prevents both sides from trying again to achieve a military solution . the prospect , then , holds back both a great opportunity and a serious risk . there is a reason for no such meeting in the 20 years of this conflict .
if the problem were simply a matter of the gross violations of the organization of american states ’ democratic charter , persuasively certified by oas secretary general luis almagro – solutions that were measured in months or years could have been contemplated . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling robustly , relying on emergency decrees and the all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but venezuela is not just a political issue ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . governments in the americas and europe find themselves in rough , uncharted waters . but the influence of its misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , their health-care system has collapsed , and the violence and contagious diseases are now rendering them practically out of control .
similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir – regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oswald mosley , respectively – have opened facebook accounts just as well . yet the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale embrace of twitter – modi ’s ’s allies on the network include the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized followers – prominent indian politicians from every party have leapt . the chief minister of west bengal mamata banerjee is leading the popular , widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily . one day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open facebook account in order to receive and respond to public questions .
so long as a country is mired in an uncontrolled force of globalization , its future lies in foreign hands . linked to this , the reality that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the adverse consequences that those financial speculations that have boosted globalization . so the world needs , within its own regions , to facilitate general economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and most of all a common willingness to correct the rules of the game according to the region ’s entire interests . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , the poor and developing countries must allow some means of protection for their new industries . only such an equal cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration .
is it fair to expect that egyptians would continue to pay for their past repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ? a prudent lender was to consider these facts before making the loans . when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with a payment of weapons paid for their borrowed money . having clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , this money should not be mubarak himself , rather than his own victims , who are held accountable for it ? the type of regime mubarak had been run for many years .
perhaps those are thought en vogue in korea as it thinks of possible unification , but even there it will be very difficult to accomplish when the time comes . claims of alternative strategies must therefore be set low by saying the initial exchange rate that might supposedly choose to make east germany a low-wage country . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would forego an experiment ’s failure before embarking upon it . even this is a dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially in almost every year relative to west germany . at a more depreciated conversion rate , the us would simply experience more rapid wage inflation .
new firms in the services sector , with 3.6 million starting just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks in part to a new streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding the market access and funding for smaller firms . for their part , china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus at the same time . in fact , public investment remains high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand back in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is no guarantee .
hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively working to divide and weaken the eu and nato . the eu has the mechanisms to regulate its economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . if europe is to confront down its aggression from the kremlin , it is critical that poland and hungary adhere to such groups ’ fundamental values and principles . but it is also necessary that the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism for curbing the rule of law within the union . it would be unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remains mired in its own constitutional crisis , with its government disregarding the rule of law and a discredited international body .
but this risk is not an adequate reason to abandon or repress research on solar geoengineering . the overwhelming majority of those who researching solar geoengineering , or to advise for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , have also promote much stronger action on reducing emissions . many worry , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will use solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but most researchers are not driven by such interests . still , it would be extremely likely that large fossil – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will eventually use discussion about geoengineering to battle emission restrictions .
it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its abrupt disappearance 15 years ago , has left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism . national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . if a great power forgets that or loses its ability to act accordingly , it starts a decline . in order to achieve this , an american would have had to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order much like it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of us unilateralism .
the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and a conference hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation – to be attended by the barkindo , just as many african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders seem to be setting an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . working with other stakeholders , sustainable-, and just transition campaigners can also achieve something more : allowing carbon-dioxide energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far largely experienced only the negative oil-backed development effects of the twentieth century . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figuring out how best to foster domestic development and diversification agendas . for such strategies to work , but the global oil industry needs to get on board . the industrialized economies , for their part , must do more to support african oil industries , ensuring that the negative effects of their oil production are mitigated .
economic development in the gaza strip has been limited under egyptian rule , and the region has suffered absorbing the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the south of mandatory palestine that would subsequently become israel . in contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s inhabitants comprised of refugees living in difficult conditions in refugee camps , and they depended largely on working in israel . the 1967 war placed all mandatory palestinian territories ( as with sinai and the golan heights ) under israeli military occupation . palestinians ’ access to egypt were confined , with a large part of gaza ’s predominantly unskilled labor dependent on united nations relief work administration , which has built and maintained local refugee camps . nevertheless , though one-third of the west bank has been closed to palestinians to make room for the few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population is refugees , many of whom owned their land , leaving a wide range of jobs open .
cambridge – when the financial crisis erupted , the usual thinking may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner of america ’s treasury secretary , the chairman of the us federal reserve bank of the treasury , and of the president of the new york fed at one . all three published lengthy memoirs explain why they did , and did n’t , do what they did , and did n’t do , inevitably , with a degree of self-reasoning in each instance . now , a decade later , the three of them co-authored on what might best be described as a version of that episode in history . a second draft of history is often written by key people themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly because “ i propose writing that history . ”
the objective was not to tackle the problems that they faced a direct challenge , but rather to induce new , more efficient activities that would help to turn debt into assets and maximize use of the economy ’s capacity . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – the substitution of the old , inefficient sources of growth with a new , more dynamic , expedited economy – it expedited this process . for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing farm reforms in the 1980s , spurred partly by growth in the non-agricultural sector , the result of policies to diversify township and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects , the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) ’ chronic loss-making and excessive property-rights ( mfn ) , respectively , by implementing the institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting soes ’ downward return on capital . in this sense , east asian major economies embraced the process of “ creative destruction , ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economy ’s structure is continually revolutionized from within .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and about kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , taiwan ’s continuing international isolation has scarcely stirred a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . this seeming double standard can be explained in part by a feeling of guilt : most notably , the west has embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability in not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal repression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , has not captured our attention because it is stable and thriving economically . this neglect is not only tenuous ; it may also prove dangerous .
whatever the possibility , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : the decline of power bestowed by the uk on its non-elected special advisors , or of spads that have become dominant figures across all departments of government . during my 17-month experience as its minister , i became convinced that the spads ’ excessive power – and a haughty approach that undermines the uk ’s excellent civil service , together with the elected and appointed council of ministers . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill , and nick timothy geithner took that danger to alarming levels . now , many are eagerly offering their views about whether the uk should look yet again at the “ norway model ” of its relations with the eu , or some alternative scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market .
it would be naive to imagine that nanoscience would evolve in the absence of risks to our health and environment . while attempting to halt the development of nanomaterial-inspired technology would be just as irresponsible , responsible trends in such technologies call for vigilance and social commitment . indeed , many of the ingredients used to power nanomaterials are now well known for meeting the risks to human health . an encouraging trend is that methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ “ greener ” as they shift from the laboratory toward industrial production . setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity offers a preliminary result suggests that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities .
today , nearly 4.5 billion people have access to the internet , and around one in three internet users is below the age of 18 . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to turn child sex trade into an even more lucrative business , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to address this appalling crime . the unregulated online world is therefore fertile ground for reaping huge profits from child sex trafficking . globally , human-trafficking generates an average annual gain of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a smartphone with a high-speed internet connection to go to business .
and it should n’t come as a surprise that markets have tested europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to stay silent where monetary affairs matter . it should n’t come as a surprise , then , that europe began to slide against the dollar , contemplating variations in economic performance between america and europe . the euro has already experienced a difficult but hopeful start . the recent us intervention and support from america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets have come to believe in its success . all of us owe them for that .
now that internet fever has abated , we are hearing that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting itself . but this view is as half-truth as the previous idea that the boom would last forever , for the time being , because the internet economy has created new fundamentals . humans have learned that it pays to buy dips , and have not been weaned from the habit until it has not stopped paying . what should now be obvious is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given . indeed , the internet ’s boom-and-bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets .
palo alto -- since the development of sixteenth-century science of toxicology , its guiding principle has been that , for the most part , “ the dose makes the poison . ” the principle even applies to foods : large quantities of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . it is a rule that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide many billions of times daily . the risk that one poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic harm capacity and one ’s exposure to it . the correct dose of aspirin may be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming far too much can be lethal .
cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania , is not , and fezzan has not been fully joined by the revolution . the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , the ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , fezzan ( southern ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) . given libya ’s lack of a democratic experience , some view this as the likely result of a post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country trying to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities . albania , mongolia , switzerland , and india have successfully passed more complicated trials , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions .
the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary-policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary and desirable fiscal consolidation . ecb quantitative easing , they argue , with none of the fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . they propose tax cuts equivalent to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed with very long-term public debt all that the ecb should buy . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail excessively large stimulus . but they also highlight a crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate economies ?
standard & poor ’s has received some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade us government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s political assessment is on target : by generating dysfunctional paralysis at the government ’s heartland , the tea party has shown willingness to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and to ensure significantly slower growth . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier . never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are totally implausible ; these projections matter politically , because , without them , a full-scale sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would be readily apparent . confrontation and brinkmanship has become america ’s new watchwords of us politics , even as the american government ’s legal ability to service its debts has been on the front , owing to the tea party ’s ideological rigidities .
on trade , trump and xi have agreed on a 100-day plan for talks on reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . trump , for his part , has accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . the understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks their countries are facing . both seem to have recognized that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable them to focus on their respective challenges . moreover , america has embraced china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating a us-china comprehensive dialogue consisting of four subdialogues : diplomacy and security matters ; law enforcement and cybersecurity ; and social and cultural issues .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not take priority over a strategy to address the issue of sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy needs to center around federalism . had federalism in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would n’t have ended up as a failed shia state . the uae and qatar have already instituted a compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan in footsteps by revitalizing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni states ( as well as iran ) .
israeli elections are , in some ways , a tribal affair ; people vote on the basis of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . netanyahu positioned himself as a magnet for fear and complexes of a wide cohort of aggrieved voters , including russian migrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis and religious settlers . the left spurned for peace is perceived as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political affairs ; they are an expression of the upkeep of kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds on its widespread yearning for jewish roots , its deep-seated fear of arabs , and its uncompromising mistrust of a “ world , ” the so-called international community , with which jews have a centuries-old dispute .
but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s role and income prospects will require upgrading their skills , so that they can embrace the new and changing opportunities wrought by the ongoing digital revolution . according to mgi research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health-care and education demands grow . moreover , among the new creating jobs that will be created will comprise many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally prospered . but it is not yet clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s employment . female success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , benefit for individual women , their communities , and society , and to the global economy .
indeed , russia ’s links with the muslim world go back thousands of years , rooted in a tradition of tolerance . after loyalty , however , was assured , the government enacted a more pragmatic foreign policy . russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , sri lanka , and central asia , and brutally suppressed host any opposition . until the caucasus century sedentary muslim elites co-opted into an imperial aristocracy just as in the 1920s absorbed national communist elites in the soviet nomenclatura . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial cabinet failed to back orthodox evangelism .
hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . the absence of any plan to rally diverse protest groups and the hong kong government has become a source of mounting concern . such a plan would have to do at least two things . the trigger was a proposed extradition law that many feared would expand the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s court system . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to an all-country , two systems ” framework .
to address this distortion head on , and to provide clarity about means regarding means of allocating money , the egf should concentrate its limited money on two simple , active labor-market programs : wage insurance and the mobility allowance . a mobility allowance could offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months of ’ gdp , or four months ’ ’ ’ ’ worth of payments for cross-national movements . the downside of such a results-oriented approach is also clear : the margin of choice for eu members on how egf funding should be spent on their own countries would be minimal . wage insurance might offer workers whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to only half the gap between the old and fledgling salary . the very simplicity of such a scheme will probably ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates .
but kharas ’s projections suggest that , by 2030 , asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class . in other words , asia will displace not only the west , but even other emerging regions . this is , of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect . asia ’s gdp in the us grew by 28 % ( after including japan ) .
a greek exit from the eurozone , coupled with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major beat for european integration , particularly after the laborious efforts made to hold together a monetary union , and , with it , a european dream . populist parties , both on the far right and the far left , gain electoral traction . some , such as france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national front , oppose their country ’s ’s ’s ’s eurozone membership ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge these new parties pose to europe could prove extremely disruptive . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in light of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and following independence marches in france and across the continent rekindled a long-simmering sense of european solidarity .
but , while deliberation focuses on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of a multilateral body , little vision exists beyond this framework . european governments are only now reluctantly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s collective influence by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . taken together , each of these shortcomings has cast grave doubt on the eu ’s claim to be leading the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . indeed , when europeans wonder about reforming global governance , they limit themselves to the numbers of seats and voting weights in the international body . europeans repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” ” ” but seem to have no comprehensive strategy for translating this into coherent policy .
são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s 1980s and 1990s is nearing a tipping point . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s newly elected federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the country ’s banks . if the court approves the deal , a settlement would have placed billions of reals in the pockets of their savers . but more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly interminable war on hyperinflation . throughout the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economies and currencies .
today , women dominate african agriculture ; the continent of ’s most important industries . but this has not translated into greater state control of finances . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money for farm-related activity than men do . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency constraints and mobility every conspire to lower rural women ’s access to farm financing . these barriers have had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur its all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . modi ’s government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive rule , including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – as a display of resoluteness .
one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections into countering this factor-cost asymmetry . liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : they lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which cause a relative decline in labor demand . even if an employment subsidy were offered only for , say , 1 year on year , firms would be tempted to engage in more labor during this period . this is very likely to aggravate the problem of unemployment ; it is certainly not mitigating it . so , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 to purchase assets , and the remainder to provide firms for shorter-term job-creation grants , which might be particularly effective in economies with flexible labor markets that allow for short-term hiring .
the seed treaty is off to an identical anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is over-wrought , confusing , and complicated – in short , inimical to innovations that might have benefits the world ’s poor . it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering protocol to the cbd protocol . and it has much in common with the “ nagoya-kuala lumpur ” protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed , which fuses little except to frighten would-be entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experience of the countries implementing the treaty has not been particularly positive unless those countries shed high tolerance for the bureaucratic regulatory regimes that suppress innovation and evolution in the name of lofty aspirations .
“ there is , ” wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a certain situation capitalistically disorganized economy in which the greater cultures are not so victorious but rather lost in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international right shifted to fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . for much of the post-1945 era , these divisions faded as the right , and left fought battles for redistribution within national economies . at the center – beleaguered by the antiglobal demonstration of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . instead of an established set of coalitions between the left and the far right , there was thus a triple split , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists .
beijing – china ’s leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness makes me proverbial . but the veil that exists beyond how the omnipotent party makes important decisions is lifting somewhat , because the volume of unparalleled materials on the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen square of 1989 is being published this month . the materials included in that book , which i brought off china and decided to make the public , consists of hundreds of documents , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s republic deliberated on how to handle the tienanmen demonstrations ; crucial speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; classified reports from security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and the military . take as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s leaders ’ modus operandi . as witness and participant in the tiananmen incidents , and as someone with access to this historical archive , i felt it my obligation to publish this record of a decision that lay behind what happened .
in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was a dreary , repressive , joyless , place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , with creativity stifled under a blanket enforced conformism . recordings by the rolling stones , and other western groups , through the internet , were banned . rock and canals were regarded as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastic people of outer space , performing in english , was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized disturbance of the peace process . ” and yet records were smuggled into czechoslovakia and other eastern european countries , where they had treasured various rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president .
no government can simply walk away from these responsibilities overnight . of course , there is an appealing logic to saying that governments should need to balance their budgets just like the rest of us ; sadly , this is not nearly as straightforward . governments typically possess myriad ongoing spending commitments linked to basic services , such as national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention retirees . such costs are the precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic stresses when financial markets lose their confidence and capital inflows abruptly dry up . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of the autocratic “ abrupt halt ” in debt finance .
president hosni mubarak of egypt argues that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while jordan ’s king abdullah has coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of shiite shiites ” and the resulting “ sunni /shia divide ” are supposedly creating an ever widening gulf chasm . while this perception may persuade at first sight , it ultimately relies on generalizations that reveal more about its advocates than real realities on the ground . ironically , this perception brings israel to some rather unlikely partners . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” often blames a widespread sunni chaos .
making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that the boom in renewables has translated into just 2 % of global demand for energy . as matters stand , from coal , oil , and gas to date could still deliver 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down by only a slightly more than 90 % today . to complete the shift away from fossil fuels will require drilling at the heart of the global economy . companies can not keep producing oil , gas , or internal combustion engines while moving gradually toward more cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break . it does not help that the world ’s largest financial institutions funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year .
furthermore , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to the modernizing of military facilities and doctrine , increasing numbers of soldiers , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly costly for rebels . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible government demands , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing insurgents to maintain their claims realistic . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at the meetings of norway and cuba . its agenda will focus on ending the conflict with no endless debate about the theoretical and doctrinaire questions .
the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small relative to the size of the economy . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains untouched , because it has trading relationships with china and other major american partners . yes , this is a volatile data series , for it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area in which obama set the bar high during his two terms . the most positive thing trump can say about trump ’s first year in economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promises to disrupt trade .
perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories have been passed on just as surely . all of these books are variations of the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 that japan came across after defeating the czar ’s forces in 1905 . in response , the chinese have picked up many of the modern western thought from the japanese . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ jews rule the world via a proxy . ” but southeast asians are not immune to this type of nonsense either .
it needs not only closer economic ties , but closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts because they know that it is they who will do bailing out . they oppose whatever is the europhile of european political integration . those running a robust emergency funding mechanism will have to be strongly accountable . they will have to answer for a strong european parliament .
new york – striving to revive the world ’s economies while responding to the global climate crisis has raised an knotty question : are the statistics giving us the right “ signals ” on what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on heightened significance : what we measure affects what we do . if we have poor action , what we strive to do ( say , raise gdp ) may actually contribute to a worsening standard of living . we may also be confronted with a false choice , seeing the trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do n’t exist . by contrast , a better measure of economic performance may demonstrate that the steps needed to make environmental improvements are good for the economy .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? ” we learn at introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . banknotes are just components of paper with a number that is attached to them . but why do we accept that this ? so , how do i know that i can trust that it is worth what it says it is worth ?
membership has since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four of these just left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future , plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . with the refugee crisis turning schengen threatens to undermine the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and its national governments ’ ’ ability to sustain order and the rule of law , the time is right . to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . yet sometimes just as sacred cows are the greatest task of skilling . when it was first created in 1985 , the schengen zone included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) .
he has no interest in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity and let politics out of him . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . no doubt , putin now seems willing to behave like any peacemaker . but the issue will not go away .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk creates an opening for the populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically like metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . moreover , europe ’s ’s external environment has yet to take its place ever more dangerous . though the world ’s attention currently is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , threatening an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars are on the streets of new york poses a threat to american national security . should he wake his next morning determined to impose severe import tariffs on european cars , things could get very nasty , very quickly .
indeed , greater competitive pressures can increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , and make investors more prone to panics . it can also weaken the charter ’s value for institutions . the result will be more incentive to assume more risk . there is a trade-off on the relationship between competition and stability , but it is part of the question . a bank with thin margin and limited liability may have little to lose and will tend to gamble – a trend aggravated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies .
most live in poor and remote communities , which continue to lack access to vital vaccines , which are universally available in better-off countries . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox and dramatically reduced infant deaths and diseases associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus – in short , but not least in sight . yet , sadly , a child still dying every 20 seconds by diseases like pneumonia , a gene that can be prevented with a vaccine . fortunately , the world is taking action . this is one reason why a baby born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a baby born in a low-income country to die before the age of five .
as the pioneering baby psychologist jean piaget showed , children at the early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally focus on meeting their own needs and do a n’t think about the rules . rather than concede that breaking the rules , they lie to reconcile the inconsistency . a child might snatch yet another child of a playboy , crack it , and then deny having done so . to childish ’s mind , he is not in the offing ; the world is simply poorly informed . and , because a child believes that all operates under his particular definitions of right and wrong , she can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently .
its greatest shortcoming is its paucity of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is only stunning . over the last five years , china has multiplied its five-fold highway system . it is this difference , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . indeed , what , then , can india do to close the gap ? if your products ca n’t get to the global economy , you ca n’t conquer it .
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making the willing prey of those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians might so appeal to so many , they , no less than easily swayed popular voters , must be scrutinized . there are two types of populists today : exploitative and enlightened . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , whereas unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” ” dominate the public debate . the question is whether the political brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy could also be reformed to save it .
the last feature that stands out in this era of historically slow productivity growth is weak demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is crucial for investment . across industries , slow demand recovery after the financial crisis was a key factor holding back investment . across industries , sluggish demand recovery following the financial crisis was a key factor holding back investment . for example , a mgi survey last year found that 47 % of firms are increasing their investment budgets , owing to increased demand or falling demand .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from the normal tenets of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims on offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french never care that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets in order to defend “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to comprehend how markets operate . they look upon economics as an ideological battleground , in which all views can be entertained without being confronted with logic , much less with facts . nevertheless , facts have since taken a hard hit .
health care and social security already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from about one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . while social security and medicare remain important to ensure well-being in their retirement , their role must be updated to suit today ’s needs . avoiding this outcome will require us political leaders to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income individuals . for example , to ensure that nobody employed for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , social security needs higher minimum benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less benefit over time growth . with no change in course , us programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be crowded out by the 2030s .
new york – president george w. bush has rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections a victory for [ its ] people . but , even as he spoke of those words , his administration worked behind the scenes to grossly undervalue pakistan ’s will by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up elections ’s biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . in the polls , millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists and , in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking the breakdown of pakistan ’s political process in the name of his own legacy .
it evades the immune system , which is why the body ’s natural capacity for fight , or clear , is limited . it mutates quickly within the individual , and among its geographic locations , establish latent reservoirs within cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months or even years later . three of the five hiv-positive people still receive no antiretroviral therapy . moreover , prolonged treatments are not the same thing as a drug , and no public-health tool ( other than clean drinking water ) has ever equated the vaccine ’s preemptive power . as a result , hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus , and we know how to fight it .
according to this argument , academic scientists should either publish their research openly or she away a university before she pursues her commercial interests . likewise , the universities that employ them should abandon product development in favor of existing companies . but it is useful to remember that university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial ; yet what in the past originally looked to many like a conflict of interest often came to light as a confluence of purposes . for example , during the late 19 th century period , as american universities started running on research at the very heart of the academic mission , they were charged with forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that research ’s demands drove their teaching responsibilities impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the intervening period , the european central bank ’s behavior has conditioned on the tension between what it can and is allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union capable of providing unlimited financing to its governments , but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . still , the ecb has yielded large amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening pressure on governments ’ debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has held up government bonds – worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets under its securities market program . moreover , it has issued loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that has generated demand from eurozone banks in excess of € 489 billion .
america ’s economy was supercharged with over-leveraging ; now comes the painful deleveraging process . america would face these problems , even if it did not simultaneously face a financial crisis . after all , when it is clear that banks do not know their own balance sheets , there is reason to trust the other side in nature . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze . the bush administration saw trouble coming , denied that they came about , then minimized their significance and , finally , panicked .
as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho has observed during our visit , teaching young people to think critically , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects on a country ’s knowledge economy . mindful of these benefits , myanmar has placed an education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority for improving inclusivity is already underway . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in more local language , more than 100 of them speaking in myanmar , rural areas . vietnam and south korea are offering inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their education systems within a generation .
but what if economists ’ compensation assumed compensation in theory does not occur in practice ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . instead , policies amplifying competition , whether for trade , labor markets , or for domestic production may be socially destructive and politically explosive . this highlights yet another reason for economic-policy failures since 2007 . what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically prohibits income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that might compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ?
madrid – economic globalization , combined with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has displaced developing countries and left many companies within them , key global economic actors . but cross-border investment by countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to a “ ancient ” fdi-exporting member states . these changes have increased the complexity of the international investment regime , and should the broaden interest in the development of a more effective investment-protection framework . this provides fresh rationale for enhancing the multinational framework to protect foreign investment . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed from just a few sources : traditionally wealthy european states , north america , and japan .
the worry now is that information technology is now on the bend of the “ hockey stick ” curve where it will suddenly take off at far more speed than before . the resulting changes wo n’t all be welcome in economic terms . worries about globalization and the computer revolution were ultimately able to boil over the same thing , with most of the new information technologies being adopted . computers and the internet made it easy to ship information almost costlessly and for doing business across cultures and continents . the resulting changes wo n’t all be welcome in economic terms .
copenhagen – amid a rising wave of anxiety about climate change , too many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . many contend that an agenda is propelled by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . but it is worth taking closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming . the republicans ’ current attempt in the american congress to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this discussion . the intention has been understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged majority light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions .
this approach limits the gains from trade . after all , it is this approach that would enable uk firms to position themselves in a well-developed , integrated supply chains , serving a far larger range of markets than they would to which a bilateral deal gives them access . for example , the inter-american development bank reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 small-scale regional trade agreements have been meager . the key to scaling up these gains , according to the iadb , is to enact a new strategy that expands access both across and within markets . this suggests that for the uk , a mega-regional free-trade deal – which provides access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – is the best way forward .
growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion , and ultimately on the loss of support to strategies . by contrast , income inequality that is not all too extreme and that does not emerge from corruption or privileged access to markets has a better understanding and acceptance . against this backdrop , one can evaluate current growth patterns for the global economy – and its diverse range . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical for equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility .
if the rule of law is to be selected , democratic self-defense may not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . for starters , it is important to recognize that lines must have been clearly visible even before extremist parties emerge . one criterion that seems universally accepted is party use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence – as was evidently the role of golden dawn in the attacks on migrants in athens . there is less consensus in favor of parties that incite hatred and are committed to the destruction of core democratic principles – especially because many extremist parties in europe have gone out of their way to emphasize that they are not anti-democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ “ the people . ” thus , the bans ’ criteria should be spelled out preemptively .
clearly , elected officials need to identify answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . for them , patriotism means being harder-primacy about national interest and adopting more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats , must be heard . a second part of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people were subordinated to those on the elite – must be heard and responsive to it . a democracy in which majority feel ignored , or exploited , is unsustainable . either the government or the entire system would be overturned .
finally , the renminbi ’s recent downward slide against the dollar amounted to only 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 – far short of the double-digit declines in japan ’s yen , the euro , and the british pound . while official american data show overall import prices fell 11 % in the 12 months through august , this comes almost entirely from lower energy costs . more important , wealth , and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . even more relevant , the decline in the renminbi and other currencies during the past year has had very little impact on america ’s import price level , because chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and do not adjust when exchange-rate changes vary . so , on an aggregate trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it competes .
there is nothing automatic about this , either . many developing countries are spending lots of time in a steady , no-growth equilibrium , and then a shift to a more positive one . so , while we can expect to see a multi-year process of rebalancing and to close the gap between actual and potential growth , exactly how long it will take a rely on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in all cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because there are more missing components of recovery in these countries .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . finally , the eu should work to francoize belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka is acting , laying the foundation for rapid development as soon as he is gone . like spain in the dictator ’s late years , a political opening is unlikely .
for example , south koreans are now enjoying a standard of living similar to that within the european union , which makes many analysts ’ relentless categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy , ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s levels of richness have n’t come anywhere near that of south korea and yet are still vastly wealthier than the remainder in the n-11 , some that stay among the world ’s poorest countries . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have grown significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been rather disappointing , with egypt ’s even larger share of gdp . collectively , the sri lankan comprises some 1.5 trillion people , and its current nominal gdp is some $ 6.5 trillion . it is these countries that have unusually varied economic and social environments , with very different wealth levels .
multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic onslaught of liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s gaping support for authoritarians . far from the aberration , trump ’s trade wars and a betrayal of allies represent the new norm for global order . for the first time since world war ii , europeans find themselves with no notable ally or partner after it . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians periodically mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , with china and russia continuing to expand their spheres of influence , unchecked . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria due to a betrayal of the kurds who spearheaded the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) has also undercut eu interests .
leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism ( efsf ) , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he forecast that labor shortages are creating a ceiling that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in the next few years up to 2030 , and a mere 1.3 % from then to 2050 . whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the paris attacks ’ latest crisis , economic migrants have been widely viewed as more negatively . eliminating some $ 70 million in jobs , and hence taxpayers , from the european economy , would obviously be catastrophic . comparatively few europeans seem to contest their moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere .
at last count , some 258 million migrants around the world were connected ; with 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will linger if even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out . not since 1951 have international refugee protection standards received so much attention . according to the international organization for migration migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration , a gap that needs to be addressed now .
here , after my show trial , and indeed four and a half months in a cell , i discovered that there are no male atheists in jail , either . in this season of love and family , the loneliness of a prison cell is nearly unbearable . lukyanivska ’s jail prison sentence , kyiv – it has been said that there are no atheists in an foxhole . when , despite incontrovertible pain , you are still interrogated – including in your own cell – for a few hours with no break , and an authoritarian regime ’s whole system of coercion , including its print , seeks to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prague becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one may have . a god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only accessible family , because – deprived even of any access to a trusted priest , there is no one else in whom to confide one ’s worries and hope .
but , beyond aid reductions , it might also make sense for donors to disburse aid funds that they owe ( this has not been confined to education loans ) . and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd ’s development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable them to meet their oda targets . this reverses the trend over the past several decades toward grant-based financing , particularly for basic schooling . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of non-grant-based aid . loan buy-downs can help to keep the education sector “ competitive , ” ” and could demonstrate to be a mechanism for allocating extra resources for education , for which capital-scarce countries may be reluctant to borrow otherwise .
had more attention given to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in its access to water , shelter , or better jobs , this population might not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . ultimately , the augmented economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie rather than a shrinking one . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence inside the slums of its major cities . let us draw the right lesson from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for preventing conflict in the long term . furthermore , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances .
supplies of water also tend to be heavily variable across regions , and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at the irregular times . one new factor influencing water supplies is the upward march in global temperature , after a trend driven by the other . while we are by no means certain about the precise effects , a growing number of scientists believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and the frequency of its extremes may also increase . this would make it extremely difficult to capitalize on the existing delivery infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , medicine systems , and long-wave pipelines . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and the fall of adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we can see that concern about exhausting resources is not new .
but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq came from america ’s nearly catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without a pay-as-you-go ( payg ) pension . that move lay at the root of many in iraq . libya is fortunate , in some ways . the national oil sector seems to be comparatively intact , and thus should contribute to government revenues relatively soon . qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen through loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than with any sense of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone of their underwear and send it home ( to describe what may be the boldest of outcomes ) might be great .
in ex-communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were , in fact , misbegotten from their starting point . in the last years of communism ’s investment came almost totally in the direction of self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even under the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , the big state ( and many private-sector ) firms often needed to be broken up , to be restructured , merged , or shut down . even aside from insecurity derived from new property rights , gains from privatization are often precarious , at best . the problem lies with the assumption that most state-owned enterprises hold the value .
the new international initiative , called the “ electrification roadmap , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies for meeting the mdgs , as well as from his initiative for sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) , and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as the discussions there revealed , those issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and aid . we electrified more than four million households through a short-term focused effort , an effort that featured prominently in the debates held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drew interest from other developing nations . yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people across the developing world .
high fertility rates stymie outlook economic growth , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stock of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . high fertility rates in much of the world are partly a consequence of low income levels . the un estimates that the world ’s population will rise from around seven billion today to around ten billion by 2050 . but causation also runs the other way . nigeria ’s ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s could grow from 18 million today to 42 million by 42 million by 2050 .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest-rate spreads , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and a strengthening currency . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and surging interest rates , albania has its lowest record interest rates and a strengthening currency . italy and spain have all of the ingredients of a catastrophic result . once north korea of europe under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now stands at 25 % that of germany . there has been all of the ingredients of a catastrophic result .
what is needed now is the political will – and not only in the u.s. to sustain this diplomacy . peace and security in darfur should provide an essential benchmark for normalized relations between the u.s. and sudan . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the forthcoming negotiating rounds , appointing a senior official to help coordinate american policy on darfur , so as to ensure that peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as north-south cooperative efforts . conversely , nato needs to be prepared to lead an international effort to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – notably egypt , ethiopia , kenya and uganda – will also need to play a robust un role .
this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects the socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries via the establishment of joint-liability mechanisms . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for politically ’s ’s benefits and collectivize costs , he would pursue the policy sooner , more quickly , and at much higher cost than he would have done had he borne the costs himself alone . new debt , however , is nothing but a dumbform , lowering the pressure to take painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity for growth . it is this de facto debt mutualization , which has encouraged creditors to accept lower interest rates and only lower interest rates that have permitted renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from the austerity policies . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly europe ’s transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of new social breakthrough .
one leading expert for indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , particularly the wayang religious tradition . in short , javanese culture helps indonesia manage the many different voices that a new democracy has throws . and why has the world really n’t ever taken note ? the story is as complicated as indonesia ’s it is . according to anderson , “ in sharp contrast to the great religions of the near east … ” the religion of wayang has no prophet , no single message , let , not the bible , … the unlimited variety and sharp individuality of his dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflected a variegation of human life as he feels to be javanese .
engaging with the southern mediterranean region is critical to the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – a place of political , economic , and energy cooperation – of the region . the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining rigorous aversion to military interventions , and has sought to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated , most obviously , into the repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . in this respect , the eu has been its signature , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , so far russia must respond with new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . indeed , egypt can not manage even the domestic challenges posed by a fast-growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies , a situation that jihadists are exploiting with much success . but the lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish its two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . how , then , did the country get the point ?
the security challenge that nigeria is facing dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , which the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , has unveiled the safe-schools initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign started online following the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka of the world book day speech , in which he called for jonathan to “ put back the pupils . ” nigerians ’ expression of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , headed by former government minister oswekwesili ( who also spoke at the world book day event ) , and civil-society leaders , including the attorney general maryam and hadiza bala usman . protests have proliferated across nigeria , as have countries with large nigerian diaspora populations such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . international media directed their attention and reporting on the protests and sit-ins .
by bombing , blockading , blockading , and occupying many part of georgian , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failed to protect its georgian citizens , russia lost its claims to legitimacy and stoked fear and mistrust in much of the world . an immediate cost was poland , which led its opposition to the american-imposed anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . neighbors like ukraine became even more wary . in early august , when russia set the trap in south ossetia , and georgia foolishly floated it . if the russians used their “ peacekeeping ” force solely to protect south ossetians of “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western action in kosovo ) , they would have done little harm to their soft power , and the benefits might have far removed .
but the diaspora ’s potential economic importance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented , from the early point of urban life , millennia ago , trade typically involved networks of co-ethnic merchants who live among aliens . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and dutch and british eastern india companies organized much of world trading via such networks . though these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often soft , facing discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that such co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflected their ability to enforce contracts over long distances , when the existing institutional framework might not do so reliably .
such tariffs raise costs for companies that use metal as an input . for example , the impact on harley-davidson is to raise costs by some $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bicycle ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost a company an additional $ 45 million . when government policies reduce revenue – or jeopardize the existence of a company ’s – there is only sensible that those running that business should respond as they see fit . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping to do business , he will help all americans .
but the selection of its experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . indeed , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape the public debate , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to worry more about keeping the budget deficit in check than about the effects of a adverse demand shock . for over two decades , a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation , japan has retained its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of its net wealth abroad . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” by the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
in fact , the great risk nowadays is that with so many genetic descriptions of pouring organisms , we are all drowning in a sea of data , but farther away from our understanding of biological complexity . the fundamental functional units of all intricate living organisms , it should be remembered , are cells , not genes . what we need now are the cell maps and cell maps talking things . our first task is to say how many different cells there are in an complicated organism . to my mind , we can now say with this , for c. elegans .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the arab spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdowns on and after june 3-4 played out , political freedom in central europe has been won in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then , beginning that will fall , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , however violently and rather non-democratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked , open by mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , has finally imploded . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
true , europe has been moving at a painfully slow pace , but an attack on the state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the industrial-stock dinosaurs are going into swapping . on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up , the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies , and consensus-driven politicians . new fronts in that war are opening on a daily basis for a future . in today ’s europe , they see only hints about a possibility , one that can not possibly work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and that is impatient with europe ’s sluggish progress . from here is but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and in any case poised to crash any day now .
simply put , they need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is little cause for action – and no pretext – to leave the survival of millions to erratic weather patterns . to be sure , there has been some progress . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . rather , they have to take control by drastically improving efficiency and productivity .
even in the wake of that time , england was an economic wunderkind of europe . europeans may be faring more merry , believing that the chinese market will open up not only to european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to luxury goods and even to tourism demanded by a new , affluent chinese middle class . such rapid industrial upheaval is rare , but not unprecedented . everyone feels that a seismic shift is afoot in france . the most interesting analogies are germany in the 19th century , and japan in the 1920s .
everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , would switch roles with putin after the march election . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity about economic reform . kudrin ’s repudiation of placid competence might just buy putin a bit extra time . but , taking with it in putin ’s eyes , this seems an unlikely scenario . the once-and future us president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that , with financial uncertainties grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many .
over time , this fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because the banks were not forced to live with the consequences . likewise , for those recuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume is its own reward , even though that means lowering the standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . to share the “ weakest links , ” corporates rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) – in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because the banks may not be living with the consequences . the covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for some 80 % of the outstanding volume .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to assume positions on issues that , in recent years , some indian mandarins have preferred to lamentably duck , say , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already serving . likewise , during india ’s first month as council members , the future of the united nations peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be addressed . issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world reaction to a probable change of leadership in north korea will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda as much as it does . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of a likely commencement american drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance to india ’s national-security . all are matters that call for a creative and courageous way of thinking that transcends entrenched postures or a reflexive , with the “ non-aligned ” countries .
years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies of young idealists into practical politicians nearing mid-age . this practicality will sorely be tested , provided it is for these parties to succeed . one problem that orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . indeed , the fact that fidesz has elevated its number of parliamentarians from 19th in the polls to 129 now means that many members have never been subjected to the party whip . moreover , a significant number of these new fidesz mps were formerly members of the other party , collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago .
but it is the opponents of liberalism who are wielding it most effectively . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of individual equality . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the forces of globalization and the “ liberal institutions ” that underlie it have become sauvage . nationalism and traditionalism , meanwhile , have become sources of positive emotion , even if these emotions – nostalgia and a völkisch sense of belonging – are ever-shifting sands . without disregarding the logic and ethics of ethics , areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative , liberals must connect to people on an emotional footing .
i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and that ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . in studying physics , students study algebra at the same time motivating it with a sense of subjects in math . studying science should start at the expense of physics , not biology . this sequence of study was invented in the us in 1893 . other industrial nations may triumph through pieces of disciplines , missing the p-c-b essential consistency .
many at that time rejected the policy altogether , warning that it would destroy incentives and plunging the economy into a grinding halt . until that time , income taxes had been used only sporadically to raise financing for wars . owing to today ’s technological advances , its share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) has been declining globally . thankfully , their hue , crying out for being unheeded . yet in britain in 1842 , the income tax has become a systemic , permanent feature of the us economy .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s ( sgp ) deficit limits . yet sticking to europe and forced any adjustment of wage risk to greater unrest ; in fact , it might merely postpone the inevitable . while talking tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed ( if they are ratified ) fiscal guidelines . in the us , the deficit limits of the 1980 ’s – set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law – have not been met and , like the sgp , has been revised and prolonged .
some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may be possible while upholding the eu ’s medium-term goal of a balanced budget . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement both the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the successor to the efsm ) and mtfa . between the mtfa , the efsm , and eu payments to non-member countries , the overall exposure this year stands at € 70.5 billion . following a request by a member state , the commission would be authorized to borrow on capital markets on the basis of the implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amount determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds . countries receiving help should be made open up the possibility of application for the predicted disbursement of eu funds .
indeed , japan ’s ’s desire to continue killing whales no less motivated “ “ “ emotion ” than environmentalists are opposition to it . the japanese do have one argument that this is not readily dismissed out of hand . it is some traditions that they wish to go further , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . they argue that western countries object to whaling on the grounds of them , because whales are an extra kind of animal , because it is the cows for hindus . eating whales is not necessary for japan ’s health or for better nutrition .
the good news is that germany ’s now-’s overblown conglomerates are scaled down to an efficient size , and furnishing the capital market is helping to do their job , improving resource allocation . the bad news is that the financial capital seems to be shifting abroad to finance other over-the-counter conglomerates . the international equity fund has stepped in , giving companies urgent need for liquidity , while disentangling a traditional ownership web . the bad news is that germany ’s financial capital moves abroad to fund other over-leveraged conglomerates .
talks would likely be stalled ; the us would be back to where it was two years ago , but with an over-lay of recrimination and mistrust . even absent such developments , drift is not desirable . there is a huge difference between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and precision missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weapons that could be mounted on accurate long-range missile systems that could be capable of accomplishing the u.s. . north korea could use the passage of time to raise the number of nuclear weapons in its arsenal , making some improvement in its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing . at that point , any realistic policy must begin with accepting a reality that complete and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect soon .
a time comes when every disaster has occurred , and all the stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked the dividing line . fortunately , the bond markets are dead and could take a year for revival . their absence makes it harder to invest too large amounts of money in russian securities . something fundamental has indeed changed in the russian economy , at least in the short run .
they made a walked , bussed , traveled inside carts , telephoned , and tweeted with their compatriots motivated in part by the social demands of a woman , above all for her individual empowerment . the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest in the us and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system ; there is only a reason for their families to grow their lives . the faces of a royal family are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces abattoirs , forcibly hidden . nowhere else in the world are we seeing modernity has experienced as such a problem .
in this scenario , you will have to forgo all the well-known economic advantages of the global division of labor . we can identify important swings during the history of free-market capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward the market or the state . for example , the abolition of the corn laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored a free market in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i. for those two extremes , the pendulum has swung back toward the nation-state . after wwi , the pendulum has swung back toward the nation-state . between those two extremes lie most in the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
but the “ perfect storm ” of the biggest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown at the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , went beyond any scenario that was previously envisaged . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside the evacuated zone ( such as kindergartens and school , for example ) in parallel with efforts by the japan atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop engineered technologies for remediation within these zones . japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk and mitigate potential hazard from the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . japan ’s ’s ’s ’s national government and indigenous communities did not have a emergency plan for leaving face in contaminated zones , resulting in ad hoc responses , marked by inefficiency and poor communications , particularly regarding radiological hazards .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing close . kirchner ’s successor , his sham de kirchner , is struggling . she has recently suffered a severe defeat in her peronist party ’s most recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces a legislative election in poor health , following the surgery to remove subdural hematoma in her brain . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks any experience and impact in foreign affairs .
in good times , we probably would n’t tell the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to prevent another crisis . the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , which might ultimately turn out to be binding eu-wide if endorsed by the european commission , but will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are exactly future situations that probably matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . more important , should the council declare a state of fiscal emergency , like the one we are currently facing today , eu agencies might exceptionally well have a standing hand over the national supervisors . if systemically vital national financial institutions are made at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers pick up the tab , the eu ’s entire country would lose .
but the cause is all too well known : a war against education is fought . there have been two strikes on schoolchildren both in afghanistan this week , one at a girl ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ school , where staff are bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at a neighboring boys ’ school , where a classroom has been sprayed through bullets . by contrast , the sheer number of casualties , in both of them , remains unknown . more than 28 million unbanked , who grow their way into conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , france , myanmar , and even south sudan . to be sure , all are vulnerable to extremist violence , as a result of these groups .
one hopes that this task has become relatively easier with the publication of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . a comprehensive preventive program that provides free or inexpensive condoms , and safe sex information for the worst affected regions of hiv/aids , would cost $ 27 billion , saving more than 28 million lives each year . the social benefit , on the other hand , would outweigh the costs by $ 40 for every single program . this , say , development economists enlisted by the copenhagen consensus , makes it the one best investment the world could perhaps make . here is one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian ocean compares every month with the number of worldwide hiv/aids casualties .
louis uchitelle of the new york times quotations of the highly smart catherine mann commenting on the “ co-dependent relationship … of america ’s major trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite some time , ” for “ the us and its main trading partners , have a vested interest in the status quo . ” japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed keen to keep the value of the dollar relatively high , and their central banks have piled up close to us $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . china ’s government , regarding the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities , is as less important than it is for maintaining near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to a comfortable lifestyles . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question .
prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles came to be seen by many as essentially harmless , or at least as a relatively meaningless monetary-policy channel . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle these functions , by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial-oversight issues entirely . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , by contrast , financial supervision and macroeconomic management were forced out . this rapprochement has been a consequence of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must reflect both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . washington , dc , not long ago , the separation of financial and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries .
seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once , the old adage goes , both runs escape . and yet that is precisely what many governments take to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . this idea matters a lot in the politics of trade nowadays . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . the two goals , while non-incompatible , are quite different from one another , and few policy instruments may simultaneously help achieve both .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp , and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each of them . one possibility , suggested by my ex-colleague , a former american trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . at some point , they will need nafta and ttip to be harmonized . the ttip is not just the us and the eu . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one .
true , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is escalating . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be far more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a debt-mutualization fiscal union ( eurobonds ) should be implemented in parallel . unfortunately , germany resists all of these key policy actions , because it is fixated on the credit risks that its taxpayers would face in greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest burst , italy is not the only threatening the global economy .
but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be reveling in the opening it provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over the sprawling size of asia ’s oceans . what is needed , for example , is that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy are aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , a maritime trade route perceived as a choke point for the chinese economy . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threaten india ’s own national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship the type that would benefit both countries next to impossible . of course , in their view , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful .
european opponents of the roadmap for ukraine and georgian argue that neither country is prepared for nato membership . on the contrary , the yardsticks would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia on a sound footing . but the map process does not translate into an automatic right of nato membership . too many question marks their national unity claim to exist , too many internal conflicts uprooted , and their record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious . both would have to answer many difficult questions and persuade others to live up to nato ’s democratic demands before they are allowed to join .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen running as the “ voice of the people , ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrayed as the “ puppet ” of “ bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so , what did the left and the right still mean , if anything at all ? there is little doubt that something shifted in the last few decades of the twentieth century . redistribution of wealth has become gradually less important than that of social emancipation for ethnic and sexual minorities . left-wing parties have started to die more rapidly in some countries than in others , owing to their base in the industrial working class .
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need a nuclear weapon in view of the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in america ’s reliability and its guarantee of protection from its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons might trigger a preemptive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple us nuclear arsenals would heighten the temptation for one or more country to strike first in a crisis . “ use of them or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict when capabilities are not robust enough to absorb an attack and still mete out the sort of devastating retaliation essential for effective deterrence . one risk is that north korea will over the next few years come to possess a major arsenal that poses a meaningful american threat .
at a 2013 summit meeting in california by the sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama demonstrated china ’s chinese chinese president xi jinping the evidence that chinese military members were stealing us industrial technology . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreeing that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , and said that the chinese government would not assist such theft in the future . given that this is not sufficient to halt other chinese theft of american civilian and military technology , the new nss rightly ratchets up the american government ’s next steps to stop it . this emphasis on increasing us exports rather than reducing imports is a welcome feature . when it turns toward particular us trade policies , the nss emphasizes that america will seek to “ break down trade barriers and provide american opportunities to increase its exports . ”
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the global power balance , and that america was in decline . but such narratives , for their part , can lead to conflict . indeed , overconfidence in assessments of its power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated by deviating from the smart-rising strategy and violating deng ’s dictum that china should move cautiously and “ skillfully uphold a low profile . ” after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with india , japan , india , and other countries , they opted for a return to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking aid from the international monetary fund . indeed , argentina has slipped back into crisis for a simple reason that little has changed since the recent debacle . though committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities have also made several avoidable mistakes . as it stands , countries ’ economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . with fiscal discipline and structural reforms unevenly applied , the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments .
during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than the 30 % of forecasters who contribute to a survey of professional forecasters predicted gdp growth in the remaining months of the year ; indeed , gdp has plunged by over 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drops on record . attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has already been initiated . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy are relying on extra-date , incomplete , or inaccurate , data . attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has already been starting . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on initial monthly quarterly gdp estimates , a statistic that is often revised downward as more data become available .
nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . this represents an important change from the policy of nato that downgrades the idea of national sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict that , to one side at least , involves none of the considerations of strategy , regions , populations , natural resources , or even ideologies . the west is fighting a war over principles ; a war , as president bill clinton put it , “ should end the moral tragedy . ” on the issue is an attempt to stop an epidemic , with carriers that , in 20th century europe , were nazism , communism , fascism , and now , indeed , nationalism .
policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and helping to build industrial capacity . buildings last a few decades , so , nowadays , decisions have a long-term impact on our energy use . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore promise the green new buildings that they need today . building codes already watch against dangers like wildfire and earthquakes . california ’s latest construction and appliance norms are expected to avoid having to ask five major power plants in the next ten years .
nevertheless , the effort to preempt america ’s strategy has clearly failed , as the new un sanctions were put in place earlier this month . as the deal sought to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has there been so much outrage in both the us and the west ? rather than attempting to explore options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the american security council quickly pressed the un security council for more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent un security council members , to vote against the sanctions resolution . i fear this because the us discovered itself denied its primacy in setting global policy toward iran .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt/gdp ratios are consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid higher ratios , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine growth , rather than spur , economic performance . there is also the issue of the reversal of causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise more for countries that are in economic trouble . without explanation , they have chosen to divide debt-to-gdp ratios into the following categories : less than 30 % , 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and more than 90 % . and they have turned out to be that growth rates are declining in all of these categories , as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only somewhat more in the last category .
solar and wind together currently deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav peil , bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , argues that “ claims about a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerating shift toward renewables would not relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global energy supplies anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 . ” as a result , policies putting people and companies on the shift toward immature technologies will slow growth , exacerbating energy poverty . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are fueling by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has told us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . this is also why the world is so much further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize .
a ugandan physician working in norway , sweden , cares little about the expense of a kampala beer beer . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local drug for services , and of course a home in uganda . the decline in remittances , though , cuts in both ways are boosting the decline in remittances . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money-circulating circulating in african countries . remittances have long been encouraging inflation in many parts of africa .
rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally , to balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and a new technology might offer . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions . in europe , by contrast , greater weight is placed on risk avoidance , which undermines private-sector confidence in the quest to invest in innovation . the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . but alleviating all risk is so tailor-made for it .
for the palestinians , a return to talks , however indirect , focuses on one strategic question : borders . ramallah – the palestinians and israelis have different , and perhaps even contradictory , expectations from the indirect negotiations that the united states has pressured both sides to begin . it is clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing administration , the launch of indirect talks without freezing settlements activities in the west bank and jerusalem , represents a sort of win . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give his blunder in talks . just to remind the world of that , as the recent indirect talks prepared to take off the earth , israel ’s administration approved a groundbreaking decision on the 112 israeli housing units in a settlement south of bethlehem and its 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem .
contrary to moral hazard , market failures reveal circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . for , while the moral-hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou does not intervene , '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' it becomes market failures . consider another devastating occurrence that is the uninsured ( and often non-insurable ) in the private sector . that failure in international capital markets led to sudden and devastating capital outflows after 1996 is only one such episode . in the u.s. , for instance , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and flight tornadoes are triggering imminent federal assistance .
that leads european leaders to redouble over authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces reinforce . just as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister under her her control of money and interest rates controls european politics . so , although european countries have remained democratic , the eu ’s institutions where sovereignty through crucial decisions have remained democracy-free . handing europe off its money and politics to a cartel administration has not only spell the end of european democracy ; it has also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off its democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes .
tokyo – the scale of the japanese earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far larger than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . almost six months later , the total damage remains hard to estimate . social unrest and turmoil , like the radiation leaks by the fukushima nuclear power plant , continue . and now the country has been absorbing another immense blowout : another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level .
moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces across the region . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s ’s shia population , iraq ’s shia militia , and hezbollah , which controls south lebanon , and possesses thousands of rockets poised to target israel . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all crude missiles launched from gaza . syria and iraq have become crucial ties in the iran-led shi’a strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . even if the accuracy of the iranian missile can not be assured , many could still evade defensive systems .
iraq , ravaged by war , and now rocked by its violence , is well known as the arab countries ’ most intellectually inclined . here is hoping that raheed and his colleagues continue to build a culture of iraq that is vibrant and free ; and here hopes that rasheed ’s relations with the us and international audiences to rasheed will go from one of expiation on one of engagement with his work . “ personally , i ask nothing ; i ’m here to make clear some confusion by the middle of his movie . ” indeed , rasheed notes that , at every american screening of his film , audiences need explanation for rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as his own representative . as iraq and other muslim intellectuals across the region frequently repeat it : “ books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , and a read in iraq . ”
complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . and , as the recent european post-crisis experience starkly demonstrated , it is politically difficult to undertake structural reforms once vested interests captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as the power grab for the us congress , since assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond its structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risk . the first risk stems from business-cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates soar and fall together .
economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and better information . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen its average lifespans by about 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , to quote one academic study . moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits for society . in the u.s. , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity dramatically .
the only way to get where europe needs a journey is through a realistic , gradual eu effort to build its unity . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to admitting migrants , member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . there can be no question that it is hard enough for 27 sovereign countries to act as one . the permanent , structured defense cooperation that the european council agreed last december is a good place to start , with countries growing , such as joint pan-european strategic planning . but , as tempting as it might be , attempting to paper over divergence or avoid dissent – let alone destroying the compact at the core of the european project – wo n’t make matters for matters much easier .
the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s downfall , adding to a grim global tally . to be sure , news media are under attack like never before , and not just from fake news and polarizing presidents . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered worldwide in the last fifteen years alone , and only a handful of perpetrators have received justice . and yet fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for the majority of the world ’s income but a mere 15 % of its population . nowadays , billions of people have lifted themselves out of poverty , and they are wealthier , healthier , and have more opportunity . future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s largest exercise of inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , nearly no one saw this coming . this unanticipated megatrend has had unforeseeable corollaries .
indeed , it responded to the polish opposition 's rise by castigating them as tools of western power , stalking horse for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 's , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would enable germany to dominate poland . likewise , poland 's communist government emphasized how incoherent its opposition was , owing to the tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , the leftist workers , conservative catholics , and right-wing nationalists . nurturing suspicions about who backing whom helped to drive wedges among different groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski 's recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates just how different poland 's worldview today does .
as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to choose more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring in more women ) . things are just as bad at lower levels of government , where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of which have no female members at all . it is also disturbing that some of abe ’s female pick for his cabinet , as well as for key party posts , are arch-conservatives who advocate allowing women stay at home and child-care . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its female mps ’ ratio .
living a long time is one of our deepest desires , with medical and economic advances offering hope of being fulfilled . some scientists tell us that average human lifespan could reach as much as 90 years , or more by mid-century . what good is a longer life if we can not maintain our standard of living ? the fundamental difficulty of planning for enhanced longevity is that we do n’t know whether it really will happen anyway . but what if our wish was actually treated ?
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by the merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate entrenched political and business elites , who have long benefitted from its entrenched grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to shape a national consensus about the institutions that indonesia needs , he will need to thrive across this political divide . promisingly , jokowi has a strong reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , as well as a talent for communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future , and vault himself is in the country ’s pantheon of great leaders . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ mexico ” pact could serve as a useful model .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the imf is too political a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog . the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a statutory personality enshrined in the international treaty . currently , the board has no formal status , and there is only a small , if a minimum , permanent staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be granted powers to direct the other standard setters , review the implementation of norms by individual countries , and publicize the results .
to be sure , pussy riot could hardly be classified as musicians . the case has also attracted western attention . dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in their support for female candidates . for their part , they have been more interested in creating more visual images in the west than in doing so . both feminist chants and primitive chords were secondary .
the ministry of petroleum resources ( dpr ) , a ceo of the saudi oil regulator , has denounced those claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s head , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , to transform a sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing scheme that can dominate the market in equatorial guinea and other emerging regions . in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currencies , nigeria ’s negotiated contracts permitting oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment before sharing profits . now , following companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of their country ’s oil policies want nigeria to get a larger slice of the argentine pie . that also means abandoning the government ’s co-funding of operating costs and demanding that saudi oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , a so-called “ war on terror ” has been launched . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq have not been the whole one ; many countries have also ramped up monitoring and policing of the domestic media and ordinary citizens . by using security as a pretext to flout russian media legislation that explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism considerably . freedom of speech and personal privacy , governments have asserted , would need to be curbed because of safety . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulation has often been used as a tool to muffle the voices of those offering independence or alternative points of view , particularly in view of president vladimir putin ’s administration .
the populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not its industry only but its judgment and betrays , rather than serving you so long as it sacrifices it to your opinion . ” but all were motivated by a desire to scuttle the governments and institutions they oppose . and all have come to follow the tradition of dictators , resorting to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . for example , colombian opponents of the peace deal appealed to universal norms of justice for war-crimes committed by the military and the farc , rather than national particularism , as occurred in brussels and the netherlands .
but now that we are aware of the accusations against a comedian and movie director , we are forced , in scott ’s view , to revisit the work in that light . this is at least a more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualifying just because we do a n’t like the way the artist behaved privately . something sinister and immoral can be heard . to a bookish younis to the young man , female allen , an anxious intellectual who still gets the girl , was a sort of role model . in other words , bad behavior or even purported behavior , can taint a artistic work , because an artist can not be detached from his own art .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was rejailed on the border on corruption charges . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes had just been sentenced by the country ’s former energy minister and mineral resources , jerusalem , to just four years in prison . likewise , indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was forced to resign , after he was caught attempting to extort the money from the freeport-mcmoran mining subsidiary . elsewhere , journalism has played an even larger role , too . and , indeed , public officials are being prosecuted as it often is .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proven hard to implement in practice . for this reason , many countries endured painful disruptions , which aggravated perhaps avoidable slumps in output , causing unemployment to surge and , at worst , eroded potential growth . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue increasing their countries ’ dependence on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market-based adjustments than they are to implement difficult structural and fiscal adjustments . possibly a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails some combination of internal reform , funding , and the judicious use of the market-pricing mechanism .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article based on a detail revealing how the breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ being treated like parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” the bilaterally , a report from the october meeting of russia ’s “ “ inter-ministerial commission ” on providing humanitarian aid to troubled areas in southeast the regions of donetsk and luhansk , makes clear to the kremlin . it describes how the meeting ’s attendees focused not only on humanitarian assistance , but rather served as a sort of shadow government . working groups cooperating with the russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and commerce . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates frustration with ukraine ’s government .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relations with europe , there should be absolutely no doubt about the temperament and frame of mind that our current partners bring to that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of politeness . let us be highly clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of eu membership , ” the sanctuary of those who wish to leave but wish to persuade the people that it really is just resetting the relationship . but they will not thank the us , and accommodate the us is not . when , during “ adjustment , ” the going is very rough ( as it will ) to say , “ well , it ’s a pity ; yet , there is no doubt that adjustment is n’t enough .
it is also depriving a continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . gender equity in stem is achievable , enabling many african scholars to show the world how it can be done . africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often compared to a leaky pipe pipe : girls start out with an interest in their aptitude , but drop out of their disciplines at a variety of points in their learning . in fact , a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into the science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” but they need help , with programs that offer scholarships and supports among the best ways to ensure that parity is reached in the sciences .
different monies are not simply a nuisance for tourists who arrive home with pockets of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste time and resources in dealing with the largely futile attempt to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only those banks that act as middlemen ) . the benefits of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . the current system is both risky and inefficient , because it is the thin end of the financial crisis . and , before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed equally implausible .
what they failed to do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in its preparation for statehood , drastically boosting a peace settlement ’ chances for its long-term success . throughout the past , transition agreements amounted to what george orwell called catastrophic gradualism . but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into potentially auspicious gradualism . their offer , which would have to move much further from a 2002 arab peace initiative or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions , could even incorporate the kushner plan as part of a shift toward a final settlement .
as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby that presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country and rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power . the caning of kartika , by contrast , is no example of political manipulation , and for this reason is arguably even more worrisome . her sentence roundly supported modernist muslim intellectuals , who insisted that the punishment was justly applied and can not be questioned , because it has divine sanction . these are not politicians , but former idealists who are happy that their goals of islamicizing the state are being realized . the majority are the anti-umno , and the support of the pas is .
in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asian and us-centered pacific . of course , the us would need a response to the completion of any trilateral northeast asian fta to preserve its own role in global trade , and in the supply chains that dominate asian economies . specifically , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the u.s. might want a united asia-pacific economic community rather than a maritime division between asia and the asia-pacific . it would probably seek to expand and deepen its preset infant trans-pacific partnership , a trade deal us president barack obama recently committed the us . because japan would not want to be disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it might actually accept america ’s invitation .
as a premier pan-european institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe discussing fiscal policy , business policy , and demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes many important engineering contributions to different debates , it hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach out politically beyond its jurisdiction . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a party of nation-states that has yet to determine whether they favor greater unity or greater decentralization . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-usual influence . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the dinners politically , and therefore its inability to play the role of the chief economist .
those results were foreshadowed by a study conducted last year by anne case and angus deaton , demonstrating that life expectancy is on the decline for large segments of the us population , including america ’s so-called angry “ rust belt ” males . but , if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences , their form and timing were far less obvious . but , with the incomes of the bottom 90 % having stagnated for well over a third of a century ( and declining for a significant share ) , us health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . and while america might be at the extremes of this trend , things were little better elsewhere . why did the backlash in the us occur just when the economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ?
indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement merely to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal demands . aside from the annapolis talks , which appear to be heading nowhere because of parties ’ incontrovertible disparities on core issues , any alternative peace effort is more tactical than strategic . it would demand bold statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . it would require bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . indeed , aside from israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in yet another asymmetric war , like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in gaza ’s alleys of palestinian refugee camps .
precisely for their part , germany , europe of greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-adopt the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and perhaps of the franc – relative to the euro . regardless of their choice , slower price competitiveness for the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve considerably . to be sure , both france and germany would need to implement intermediate arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro in its truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc .
in its muslim era , iran has boasted some of the world ’s great poets , writers and scientists . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not enabled academic freedom and freedom of thought and expression , something that is mushrooming in today ’s islamic republic . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . in 1979 , therefore , islamist revolutionaries made the point of preserving “ zoroastrian temples . ” other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone with ideas and wishes to exchange them with others .
its direct links to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish this from the existing arrangements . originally , the us leadership group could include representatives from a core nato group – for example , france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered and connected to their presidents and prime ministers . its leadership group would thus amount to an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and it would provide a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe , and within existing structures , the eu leadership team should include a representative from the osce , the european union , a eurasian economic union , and a single member of nato . the leadership group ’s first priority would be addressing the current crisis .
the extreme rise in real oil prices has been a major cause of the current recession , and the reversal of it will be a major drag on recovery . because some confidence returns in the us finally recapitalized the banking system , and long bond yields collapses with the price of inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will fall , encouraging economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at a fairly lower level . finally , there are two important differences between the 1930 ’s and the present . the industrial world today is much more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . the other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat mistakes – notably , trade protectionism – of the 1930s .
researchers continue to surprise us with amazing discoveries , and billions of people worldwide lifted out of poverty . yet dark clouds have taken a turn in the horizon , and in it all the rest of the world has now entered a new phase . terrorists have hit europe with a vengeance , and millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger are taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ bleak truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that humans believe in the science , the facts , and the knowledge . ” to be sure , our expectations will always be related to tensions with reality .
denver – the recent agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons , reached by russia and the un , is important not so much for what it could mean on the ground – which remains to be seen as inspectors start to flow to syria , and we hope , chemical-weapons stockpiles start to shatter . rather , the deal ’s major significance consists in having striking at all : american secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional diplomatic venues , cutting an agreement on a intense set of mutual interests . a cooperative , us-russian relationship is vital if the international system , as with it is now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . a agreement on syria could accomplish something different : americans might recognize that both angand behold are other ways of resolving problems than by dropping bombs . in the days , weeks , and months ahead , the arrangements for removing chemical weapons from syria are likely to work , one hopes , launch a new era in which the american and russian economies work together on other pressing global issues , to do likewise .
to be sure , while multinational corporations enjoy transfer pricing flexibility and may exert pressure at a time when they are making new investment decisions , their flexibility does not compare the liberty enjoyed by international portfolio investors . there is also an advantage to being at the center of the global economy , rather than being in the periphery . capital is in far better shape than labor , because capital is more mobile . in addition , financial capital is better situated in the global system than in industrial capital ; once a plant exists , moving it is difficult . the benefits of global capitalism are unevenly distributed .
i have long defaulted to watching the five-year forward price for deficient , a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about the equilibrium oil price . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil spot prices are much less subject to speculative fluctuations , with a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . with the spot price now moving in over a five-year forward price , one might conclude that a trend shift is underway . for my part , my own ’m unsure ; but i would not be surprised if it happened . the graph i had prepared to take over from the most recent oil-price acceleration in early november shows the five-year forward oil-price picking over the period of some stability .
the dpj ’s sole reason for being , however , is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp has strongly opposes koizumi ’s privatizations . that does not amount to a suitable government-to-government program , with prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration hastily exposed the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a cohesive national-security policy . it should surprise no one at one time . the dpj was established in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party consisting of individuals who left the ldp , including hatoyama himself and a former socialist party .
preparing effective defense of a state is unthinkable without greater or lesser degrees in participating in all the institutions of the state . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of first-rank defense . as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not a outright waste of cash . one must therefore remind ourselves of time and again that defending a state means , first and foremost , about defending the human dignity of every one of us . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemy at present .
i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this form of research . my own work on soil microbes at kauburn has led to the issuance of three american patents , with a number of agricultural companies pursuing technological food commercialization rights . more investment might allow scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique capacity to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . greater soil research investment could also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries .
iran backed america during the first gulf war , but it was left out of the madrid peace conference . in the american-iranian equation , it was the american , not iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . and , with american forces having overran saddam hussein ’s militancy in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a magnificent bargain that would place all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear question to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . for its part , the us has also pledged to stop impeded the israeli-arab peace process . iran has also backed america during its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan .
at the same time , it has long pursued america ’s military superiority . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) treaty . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and a large-scale modernizing of its own nuclear arsenal . still , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and a large-scale modernizing of its own nuclear arsenal . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy for “ preemptive deterrence . ”
it tends to be perceived globally as a supercilious , petulant , and prim . yet , in copenhagen , the structure established by the lisbon treaty has failed . beyond failing in copenhagen , the eu has a number of other problems . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and its burgeoning population ) and composed mostly of post-industrial , low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly seen as a peripheral . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere .
but bigger companies also have greater capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart determines that it wo n’t allow wasteful packaging , its consumer purchasing power leads to changes in packaging for the entire retail sector . the same is true with respect to wages and labor practices . when the world ’s ’s ’s major companies and most well-recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and a firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those that operate in an ethical manner and seek to improve the lives of all who are connected to the manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit from kudos , more entrepreneurial , or simply not being singled out as bad customers .
there are roughly 70 separate local assistance offices , and there are 40 international ngos that are implicated in providing aid to the pakistanis . but most decisions about how the money they receive is made outside the country . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . despite massive growth in aid dollars in recent years , including the billions authorized by former president barack obama , those in the us on earth are largely cut off from the delivery process . simply put , the western countries ’ current approach is not working .
in his wide-ranging meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the indesired effect of a downward spiral of extreme climate changes owing to a catastrophic rise in global temperature , harsher environment and rising levels of poverty . ” he noted that the world ’s oil companies are engaged in “ the constant quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement understandably urged keeping most fossil-fuel fuels underground . in fact , the same corruption of purpose is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline for exporting output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewables . in doing so , francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem . and he has reminded executives that , “ civilization does require energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization !
the resulting epizootic ( the animal epidemic ) has affected more than 280,000 cows . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle have been nourished meat and bone foods made from infected cattle . and almost identical , invariably lethal diseases , kuru , ravaged aboriginal males in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are infectious , to be sure . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies that commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s .
from every angle , the extremity of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do n’t need it – are highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads a gradual , followed by accelerating , renewed deleveraging by the major first-round costs – the longer-run unemployment and growth crisis – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer . this involves those reliant on bank credit , as do many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their homes ’ ’ market value . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with sound balance sheets would be impacted , accelerating their disengagement from a deleveraging world economy . all of this deceleration decelerates social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s globalized economic system .
by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly evident that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries had broken down . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for a brief moment of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . everywhere else , for whatever reason , misguided strategies , tactical blunders , the erroneous theories , american interventionism , etc. , faced only defeat , repression , and futility . in country after country , the guerillas were defeated , pacified , brought to the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant . democratic transitions across the hemisphere made guerrilla : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , take on arms .
the only political space left behind in fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , smallholder businessmen , and low-level civil servants . european fascism imploded with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived on elsewhere , like argentina with its own peronism . the social foundations of the interwar fascism made it sensible to see it as the far right party . at that time , the working class dependably propped up the left ’s parties . today , the social foundations of left-wing politics have vanished .
in that case , the event was supposed to reflect that complexity . it was supposed to be a careful and deliberate sounding sounding . instead , greece accepted a hastily arranged referendum . putting that aside , let us suppose that a decision in front of tsipras was so crucial and complicated to merited the exceptional step of the referendum . it was supposed to be organized and carried out with due respect for the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information relayed the greek people .
for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ the human-rights language hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for centuries . moreover , the various communities prioritize human rights quite different with each other . facing the question of female circumcision , there are clear tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals of ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and the authority of the state , multiculturalism , and nationalism , and religious and secular moral prospects . in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should care more about passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots .
new delhi – something is at stake in the number of 5 in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relations in terms of the renowned pancha sheela : mutual respect for each of its ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-interference ; in each other ’s domestic affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now , china ’s new leaders enunciated a new pancha sheela , with president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . india would be pleased to embrace each of these principles . updated principles would maintain strategic communication and healthy bilateral relations ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and enhance mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and collaboration in multilateral affairs to secure developing nations ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably .
for 25 years , the bank tried to extract governments from farming , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the bank also pushed for the privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and road and power networks , and grossly underfinanced those critical industries . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” the ” went against the practical lessons of development achievements in china and throughout asia . the practical strategy for development recognizes that government investment – in areas like agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is needed complements to attract private-sector investment . the result has been disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades .
meanwhile , the perception that he holds the u.s. , on the ropes , enables putin to continue to step up his opponents . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government the pretext to bar him from attending ballot . putin ’s body may appear unshakeable , but in fact it is propped up by propaganda and fear . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to seize the leeway foreign leaders give him . when the u.s. betrays its own values to evade a challenging russia , it strengthens putin considerably .
five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , swiss political leaders openly attack “ tough ” green taxes . with energy prices moving center stage , there is the danger that already-weak investment incentives in low-carbon energy will further undermine recovery . recent debates within the uk and elsewhere illustrate the emerging fault lines . across europe , calls for “ affordable power ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and rollback of green-energy commitments .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain its public aspirations . indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with obvious environmental decay , is fueling ordinary chinese – particularly the middle class – which once had high hopes for reform , has become increasingly disillusioned . a kleptocracy of government leaders , their families , and well-well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state , and it is intent on blocking any reform that might jeopardize their privileged status . at the same time , given its rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
aside from another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been gloomy . deeper us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the american presidential election season . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has voiced the slightest interest in a bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold about 95 % of the world ’s stockpile of 95 % , make further major cuts . america ’s cautious initial move to amend its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” are to respond to the nuclear threat , and almost none of the other kinds – has gone nowhere . negotiations to a “ de-alerting ” ” 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness , have never really started .
indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . it has transformed a country that has been in the grip of drug barons , and on the verge of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s both their popularity and a rising economy , has delivered , for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s ’s cities , and , increasingly , a peace and rule to much of its large jungle regions . yet the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat extend far beyond colombia . the hostage rescue mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from last year ’s failed power-grab referendum ( a moment when chávez , who was an indian army of high command , supposedly refused his demand to fudge the result ) onto his defensive .
but the fact remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million forcibly displaced children , 12 million of whom are refugees , will walk their school-age years without ever having set foot in a school . yet with the $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also clear that the us needs a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private-sector sources of finance , the us needs to make aid already available ( $ 13 billion this year ) go much further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investment in education . around the world , some 75 million children are currently being denied both an education and a prospect for a lifetime of future work . clearly , the help for international education will be needed to step up .
and , indeed , a significant part of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already bailed out private institutions largely . but , for the most part , the risks have not been eliminated , either . the margin for error on behalf of major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet strongly capitalized , modest losses from direct default , and indirect losses from doing business in greece may jeopardize bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
by forecasting medications need , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in combination with intense advocacy , it was possible for policymakers and providers to secure market-based efficiencies . as a result , these efforts reduced the cost of annual hiv therapies from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 per person in 2016 . for example , it would have been helpful for programs to monitor how many high-grade people have been diagnosed and placed on treatments , what share of those on treatment have achieved blood-pressure control , and what rates of treatment would require a reduction in premature deaths from a desired goal . finally , the aids effort was able to expand as a result of the powerful advocacy and competition that reshaped markets for diagnostic and cures . the resulting economies of scale permitted suppliers to shift away from low-end , capital-intensive solutions to high-volume , low-margin profit models .
the worldwide consensus , reflected in the commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions to ensure that , say , drugs can be made widely available in any case where to do so might well save a life . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , america demands what becomes known as the “ trips plus , ” which would strengthen intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs through epidemics and other emergencies . bilateral agreements are shaping the core of enhanced ties of multi-country friendship . just before last year ’s trade talks at cancun , the us made some concessions so that it was no longer the only holdout . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what kills a person is part of an epidemic .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether a recovery in the american economy is real . if it is , their exports to china are likely to grow more rapidly . and if their exports grow more rapidly , they might allow the renminbi to strengthen . meanwhile , rates of spending growth in china will not change dramatically .
broader national engagement , with ngos , local media , and a broad spectrum of policymakers being viewed as integral to effective country councils and program implementation , as well as being fundamental to the fund ’s “ supervision ” function under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that are now pervading its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would need to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private-sector counterparts . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , on behalf of the country , or on the work of politics , were discouraged . for its part , the situation today looks very different .
leila zerrougui , a special representative on the un secretary-general for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger violation ” for naming terrorist organizations in the secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council . and , thanks to the un children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education against attack , a global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . this has meant funding school guards , denial , and surveillance devices to reassure parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their school is a safe option to attend . once again , the world has been acting . thirty countries recently signed on to lucens or safe schools guidelines that instruct their military agencies how to keep schools free from school as tools of war .
as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would have required tighter monetary stimulus to compensate for a more domestic-demand-driven growth slowdown via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . that makes greece insolvent , and a coercive restructuring of its own public debt inevitable . so it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy – which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing but has flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform – can not be complacent . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : its bond vigilantes might not have woken up in france , but economic performance there has been anemic , at best , driven mostly by the mini housing boom . but the eurozone ’s two biggest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of this agenda , hoping that a quarter of good gdp data makes a trend .
europeans thought that the " french political class " should be the solution . jospin and chirac did nothing to implement the grand liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , implying that the benefit of liberalization was denied france at a time when public perceives the eu as imposing all sorts of restrictions on the french way of doing business . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of the french exceptionalism ( “ l’exceptionalism france ) , ” and to launch serious reforms involving the french electorate . the shame of le pen 's newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and to tackle the country 's problems . but europe and the eu might be increasingly catalysts for public resentment .
an alternative scenario suggests that those fears will emancipate themselves from the real issue . modern versions of this explanation hold that the world has changed so fast that national security , and , indeed , national identity , all come under threat . people in places like france and poland , worried about national decline , seek to blame somebody outside of the country . there was certainly much of this type of sentiment in the 1930s , when the populist response to the great depression attributed it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” modern economic growth still depends in nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is the exception ) .
daunting in his effort to counter arafat ’s own political corruption and micro-management activities , abbas lost whatever chance he was to maintain the allegiance of fatah ’s leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . calling for national elections , while politically correct , amounted to political suicide because he lacked any ideas for a possible outcome and gave very little leeway to ensure fatah ’s discipline . an attempt at a primary to elect fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results . abbas ’s son , mazen , runs the local investigative agency . his other name , abu mazen , is not the revolutionary name but reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son .
new york – for four decades , the ledra street in the heart of nicosia has become a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , this april , a wall that split countries ’ capital to northern and southern . slowly , people who had not mingled for more than 44 years have now begun to renew their ties and rediscover one another . it was a window onto what the future might bring . last week , i visited the ledra street crossing , the us .
but if the proposals discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in terms of integration and importance to the global economy . such a turning point would be the equivalent of establishing a free-trade area east asia that asean +3 envisioned roughly ten years ago . should that happen , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon . moreover , establishing a china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-response . for example , the momentum could expand southward and stimulate asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , for joining the group .
while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with the treatment time of roughly another year , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor benign as the canonical drugs , and at a price that is rising by a factor of 10-100 . compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , urogenital infection , which lasts a few weeks at most . while that extra cost may be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , who discover no or inadequate treatment . as a result , compliance with tb ’s drug treatment is especially weak , paving the way for the emergence of multidrug-resistant ( dr. ) tb , which can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli , who are mdr , and this past year .
of course , market forces play a role , too , but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-finance system and its revolving door between the government and industry , politics is shaped by money . but rising inequality is not inevitable . there are market economies that do better , in terms of both the gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of citizens . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over any other country but refuses to discharge student debt , regardless of how inadequate education provides , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country where monetary trumpian democracy has , such legislation has become predictably frequent .
by contrast , former us secretary of state and democratic nominee hillary clinton and the leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed welfare reform and medicare . us senator bernie sanders , clinton ’s democratic rival , effectively proposes expanding the programs ’ unfunded liabilities . either way , the us would face growth-restricting tax increases and limits on the contributions that its public investment can make to the country ’s future . with so few us presidential candidates acknowledging the correlation between reforming social security and medicare and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could either continue , or a conservative entitlement-reform agenda could go bankrupt .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in a wide range of european countries – namely , britain , france , even switzerland – in some scandinavian countries . but in all of these countries , the political discourse on all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never came to an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from its own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . this is precisely what the austrian conservative party under wolfgang schuessel has failed to do . confronted with the voting outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they have made a faustian bargain with haider . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats has not been appealing to schuessel ’s party ( making him a one-chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . a military emergency or an economic downturn would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax reductions . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion shortfall implied by fiscal reform would be to raise that to 97 % . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt-to-gdp ratio would make it harder to accomplish than a 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio . but even a massive expenditure program like america ’s $ 900 billion recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) has forcibly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s people and appeals to all stakeholders to embrace the results , declared by the electoral commission . ” ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan have called on all parties to “ “ respect and fully implement ” the verdict of ivorian people as denounced an independent electoral commission . and us president barack obama has congratulated ouattara , stating that the world would “ hold those who act to thwart the democratic process and the aspirations of voters accountable for their actions . ” at the same time , the african union has responded promptly , in this case . its peace and security council has met , stating the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process .
seoul – has the world now entered a new era of mayhem ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria has certainly indicates , in a way , such as so . indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” that are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to bear any serious burden , in order to maintain its global leadership position . but , when america is no longer willing to lead , who will take its place ? to be sure , china ’s leaders have shown their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to be a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic systems .
our research shows that industrial policies have been successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industries . a massive stimulus package , prompted in the 1970 ’s by rising oil prices , has given brazil completely new industries . with ethanol accounting for more than 50 % of current light-vehicle fuel demand in the country , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest firms – expecting that the share to rise to over 80 % by 2020 . brazil has attempted to become an energy self-sufficient in ways similar to other countries ’ modern efforts . but it would not have worked without the crucial role played by competition .
“ a child ’s creativeness and the ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states “ one ilo report , ” and its whole mental world is impoverished . sadly , families are often the latest only to protest exploitation of their children . indian fathers still sometimes repay debts , by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents occasionally maim their children to foot the bill for giving them beguiling beggars . the ilo claims that children suffer enormously when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ”
but , despite its wealth and its military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in the future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget remains in crisis . due to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , adding an additional $ 500 billion in annual budget deficits , he will need to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush is re-elected . the annual us military budget – which has raised about $ 150 billion since bush took office – will need to cut in coming years to get his entire budget outlays under control ; america ’s is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities , and their government revenue has reached double the level . japan alone has foreign-exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of which are in america ’s treasury bills .
to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or to replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . even in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ gold dinar ” as an answer to the us-based currency system . russian theoreticians of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a fine metal . so far , though , none of the globally ruinous monetary assault has occurred outside the realm of cinematic fantasy . the most seductive alternative seems to have been gold .
to be sure , a single short seller can not “ make ” the price of an asset ( unless , of course , he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 forced him a billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a band of speculators decides ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government with a debt is overpriced , they can force the price , thereby pushing its yield ( the interest rate that a government must pay ) . if the attack persists , speculators might force a government to default on its debt unless it can find ways to finance its borrowing more cheaply . voilà – a successful “ short period of ” trade – to finance it . my gain for correctly looking to this bearish view is € 1.65 meters – the € 9.1 m i picked by selling it on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay for repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had been forced to pay goldman sachs for a six-month loan .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s export exports , the country ’s government and central bank can offset its economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have dispelled projections in recent weeks . the slowdown in chinese economic growth earlier this year came almost entirely to a deliberate choice to deleverage the banking system , rein in local governments ’ borrowing , relax their infrastructure investment , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . clear statements by policymakers , all the way up to xi , have indicated that china will not permit any further weakening of the economy next year , even if that means accepting bigger fiscal deficits or easing on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the emergence of global supply chains . africa ’s small slaves were used to grow cotton in the southern united states that had then been shipped to english mills . the completed cloth then was exported to the outside world . this was the age of rural blacksmith , weaver , marcos , and cobbler .
i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but advanced culture has played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous weeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ eliminate demons and evil heresy campaign . ” such obscurantism only creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . it does not have to “ invariably represented ” by the lone political party ? like a blade runner beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to search for light . it does not have to be “ represented . ”
in 2006 , then-president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do so . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when the anti-gay bill was signed into law in 2014 . these official attitudes have inflicted major suffering for africa ’s gays and lesbians . other leaders , from the gambia ’s president , yoahya jammeh , to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . indeed , the price of homophobia for gay people in many african countries has become painfully obvious : legal sanction , social ostracism , and mob justice .
that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers about international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will the imf turn out to be the imf , the imf , china , and the imf , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in the manner of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries lack inadequate access to capital for their infrastructure . perhaps more importantly , they have insufficient voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . still , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meetings in october , the fund ’s then-chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in recent times , governments seem to have tended to underestimate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that , in order to cut public spending by the dollar would reduce gdp by more than $ 50 in the short run ; according to blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions is a drop of about $ 0.90-1.70 . that has a large gap , but it is also a perplexing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists really know much about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least much more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely assumed that the so-called “ “ multiplier ” – the gdp change ratio to the changed level of government spending – was robust and larger than one .
but as the public becomes educated on the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , this attitude will become increasingly difficult to maintain . at the same time , people worldwide must stop referring to one another as untrustworthy enemies . military planners , who consider using nuclear weapons , probably gave scant thought to those living in the cities on their targeted lists . worse , there have been suggestions for their real purposes of using them . for far too long , city residents have been using as pawns on the global nuclear-power chessboard , with little concern about the full implications of playing the game .
those groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given the populations of the europeans that the worst has come to an end . and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . the influence of widening disparities between the eu and the affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” with france at the center ( but head south ) , have also become apparent . many europeans are resisting the idea of a “ european , ” ” ” ” the eu ’s mantra in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken on increasing public frustration with the eu itself .
today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that only 25,000 still roam the continent , most largely in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . they espouse their spectacles , filled with a highhanded scotch making a fine powder . not gold powder , because the lesser moguls could offer , or even the purest of the cocaine . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is the pulverized horn of the white hills . a half-century ago , the white pressure of rhinos recched in africa .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how the profoundly interdependent power of our economies has become . in today ’s throes of extremism , it is imperative to recognize that we are simply as interdependent for our own security , as evidenced in our current struggle to defeat isis . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and that the uae has actively backing it . if we are to prevent isis from teaching this lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not quell the fires of fanaticism by force alone . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit the ideologies that give the power of the extremists , and to restore hope and dignity to those they would recruit .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of california university at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university and myself for us work on the `` asymmetry of the information age . '' they knew that information was not perfect , but hoped that a world with moderate information imperfections would like a world with perfect information . for two hundred years , economists had used simple economic models that assumed that information is perfect – i.e. , that all participants give them an equal , transparent understanding of the relevant factors . what is that working about , and why were we committed to doing so ? we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections might have profound effects on how the economy behaved .
the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not lead to the well-being of a society ; nor did they serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve the homeowners who lose their homes , those who lose their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or the taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . we are accustomed to thinking about the government transferring their money from the well off to the poor . never before has so much money been transferred from so many to so few . under the threat of the collapse of the whole system , a safety net designed to help the hapless individuals meet their life-support exigencies , it expanded generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance companies , auto companies , even car-loan companies .
this approach would adhere to the principle emphasized by us president barack obama when announcing the most recent round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be permitted to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , divided between inherently antagonistic identities , to live together peacefully . importantly , the constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament , adopted in 2010 , to rejoin a military alliance . the practical outcome , ukraine ’s remaining unaligned in military and security terms , would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . of course , ukraine ’s position can change for the future , with cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus in order to abandon neutrality .
in institutional terms , long-term reform should aim at a shift to a family-based pension system , as happened in chile to oppose the status quo , pay-as-you-go ( payg ) pension systems . in coming years , the most important fiscal task facing eastern europe and the nis government will be to reduce the size of social spending to a more reasonable fraction of gdp . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will have to pay public attention to the looming fiscal crisis . in any viable long-run arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages must be reduced , the retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and the eligibility for special pensions ( disability ) should be tightened , so that only the truly in need . the public should understand the critical difference between a one-time transfer to old workers in the early stages of market reform and a long run of pension policies .
but that may well follow a second phase in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration are starting to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies that are widely adopted . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of this scenario . and , in the third phase , the possible onset of higher inflation may catch up to policymakers and investors by surprise , producing outsize reactions that turn bad situations further away . focusing too heavily on cyclical , rather than structural , might run serious risks for future economic well-being and financial stability . but , whichever way it goes , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their forecasts for inflation are subject to a broader set of dynamic than they have been deemed so far .
the same goes for the implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . multidisciplinary , “ un agencies ” could be deployed in the field to crack down on departmental barriers and confront the appropriate challenge . the groups would operate under a shared mandate across all un agencies and be headed by un operations in individual countries . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally into every component of the un agenda , and not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues . the un has manifold agendas for peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism must be structurally integrated into one of these strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-self-contained institutional silos .
with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in a recent 2011 survey , india is home to the planet ’s largest absolute number of poor people . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extraordinarily poor , and is falling short of the poverty line , on average . each is on an average of 38 cents per day below the extremes of the poverty line . for india , the cost adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion in exchange-rate related payments . the most expensive countries in which to break away from poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria .
indeed , when oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it promotes investment in infrastructure and human development . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to spur a short-run orientation toward economic policies that limit long-term infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . more fiscal space can be created by improving governance and enhancing the tax base , and , for the poorest countries , by achieving additional stability-oriented official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . finally , institutional reform encompasses better than creating markets and guaranteeing property rights . in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , vastly exacerbating international financial markets and commodity prices .
cocaine used to pose an american problem , to the point that the united states has initiated a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . now , however , demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or dropping . european leaders need serious just about the european cocaine problem . coca cultivation has slashed by one-quarter in just five years , and cocaine seizures have nearly doubled . the “ white lady ” is seducing a steady growing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only exacerbate the consequences .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are apparently under stress . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the us federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in congress has fallen to less than 9 % . among congressional republicans , notably , a “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism is undermining the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . according to some pessimists , the american constitution was not intended to address the country ’s challenges so sharply divided income , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments still trust a majority of voters , and have power , under the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution , to strengthen their democratic institutions .
stockholm – the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last remaining dictatorship ; yet eu member governments continue doing business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward , and near lunatic despot . by treating lukashenka as an favored business partner simultaneously , the eu tries to isolate him as an international pariah , europe ’s hypocrisy stands naked . this is particularly true when one considers the chance to save face or make the money . for example , for over a decade , germany ’s police forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr ordering uniforms from a state-owned factory in the town of dzherzinsky , named after the father of red terror and the soviet kgb ’s founder , gaidzherzinsky . similar examples of such unself-interested cynicism abound .
at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) targeted longer-term refinancing operation ( ltro ) , which pulled the european banking system back from the brink . a “ fiscal treaty ” that would reinforce the stability and growth pact and , importantly , entail automatic sanctions to ensure that all eurozone members stick to these rules . nevertheless , politically motivated leadership was sorely lacking . bond yields across southern europe were rising and a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . at the end of december , they adopted decisive action .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides powerful protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view . their only recourse is to push recalcitrant firms out of the currency . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their rules . the novo mercado has dealt with this problem by subjecting litigation involving its newly-listed companies to arbitration . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil .
new york – january has traditionally been a time for evaluating the previous year ’s developments to anticipate what the new one has in store . unfortunately , while we may be at a turning point for the better-off politically , the data that emerged last month paint little as a promising image for the global economy ’s short-term prospects . and that shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges for iranian interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur a all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
and the conversion of comprehensive universities into specialized institutes for science and technology in the soviet union and communist china has done nothing that could avert the economic catastrophe in those economies . of course , a simultaneous shift in several countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could reduce the competitiveness of an economy that had made no such an effort . but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not translate into hardship for another . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future . indeed , the proliferation of highly specialized european universities has failed to buttress either economic growth or jobs .
first , all was created out of a profound crisis of the social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , low inflation , and devaluation . without a severe crisis , no major reform seems likely . second , a change of government through election has prompted reforms and given them democratic legitimacy . reform does not demand a state of emergency , as it is often argued . third , reforms require a strong leader , but a different type of reform .
nonfinancial firms have touted the mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that have yet to confront an adequately legacy of over-leverage . nevertheless , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investment to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been highly reluctant to do so since the global financial crisis erupted – many firms are thus far preferred ( or pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to their shareholders . indeed , with profitability at or near track levels , cash holdings by the corporate sector in the united states have exploded after a quarter , reaching all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . moreover , because companies have vastly improved their operating efficiency , and have lengthened maturities on their debt , they need much less precautionary savings than they did in the past . nevertheless , one looks at it , corporate sector in advanced economies generally , and in the us in particular is as strong as it has been for many years .
the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing importance to middle east and energy politics , nato ’s eu membership bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps the most compelling case for all of this is that of indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , a relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that was a star performer in asia despite the global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , one that has recently vied with venezuela for a leadership of a “ america in decline ” cheering partition . purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far more powerful for south korea , a sophisticated economic power , whose primary liability is the danger that a regime of its evil twin to the north , could collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . moreover , indonesia has shown resilience not only economically but also as a nation .
a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because the major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their inherent military power . but that ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , a test of diminishing rather than augmenting , human suffering , and acting in a war against any of the major powers protecting a suffering minority would surely trigger a much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on promoting values are exceedingly vulnerable to accusations of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win support or cooperation in others can afford to be seen fit with an unambiguous double standard . worst of all , however , is perceived as soft on those who – like egypt ’s current military rulers – commit massachusetts atrocity crimes against its own citizens .
already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human-rights groups is threatening its tariff-free access to european union markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” regime . still , this seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s administration is planning . the last thing cambodia needs is also at risk economic reprisal for helping chinese firms track american tariffs . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s administration is planning to do . sachs ’s recent deniability that any company operating there has fined the u.s. reinforces suspicion that hun sen ’s administration will continue to turn a blind eye .
the global economy risks getting stuck with the “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . in order to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . if the measures agreed by the leaders assembled at the g20 in november are realized , they will lift world gdp by as much as 2 % by 2018 , the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . the global economy risks getting stuck with the “ “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . some important economies , for their part , are continuing to fight deflation .
he endorses policies that capture accurately the relationships between “ out of area operations ” and members ’ ’ ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato could achieve strategic political and military goals collectively with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms-reduction verified non-proliferation and arms-control agreements . in a way , what kind of relationships should nato have with its partners ? if it undergo further reborn transformations and enlargement of the conflict ? the albright report tries to address these questions in a balanced way .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and deceptive . japan has officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america ’s ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wishes to avoid being subjected to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ’s ) . the japanese fear that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will be weakened should the american people decreases its nuclear forces to parity with china . it is a mistake , though , to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity in numbers of nuclear weapons . north koreans have violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the most potential leverage , cares most about regime breakdown in north korea and therefore the threat of chaos along its own borders .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , in america at least , two schools of thought pressed for more financial deregulation , that is , for repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the second , broadly , that of the democratic party , was slightly more complicated , at least on the basis of four observations : · looking at the industrial core of the global economy , at least it then had more than 60 years since financial disruptions had more than a small impact on the overall level of output and employment . if deregulation seemed such a bad idea now , why did n’t it then ? the early school of thought , broadly speaking , of the united states ’ presumptive republican party , was that financial regulation was bad because all regulation was bad .
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals , of course , yet it should not alienate moderate voters either because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some angry , wretched trump supporters might recognize that his pseudo-populism does not help the left-behind folks in rust belt towns and rural hinterlands . it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american ” . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everyone else will lose out . it is about giving an even greater amount to a few .
but iranians have reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford the full-scale war and the kind of high-level spike that would result from it . still , with no deal by a year of ’s end , a clash will become probable . as the clock ticks down , a bad outcome will only become more likely . similarly , trump has thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but neither wants to be the “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and isolate the other side .
over the past two months , the scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community , has clearly reflected a change of attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not us from you . ” political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . as a result , there is a rising belief within the scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both unnecessary and wasteful . moreover , the scaf has weighed carefully by politicians and unsettled its relative weakness , limited capacity , the notorious opportunism , and universal inconsistency . but the scaf now seems to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by its rivals .
foreign investors now hold more than half that amount of debt ; the rest of the world is foreign investors . paying interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than getting american people out of the rest of the world . that requires a weaker dollar in order to make american goods more attractive to foreign buyers and making foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . by the end of the decade , the us would need to pay an amount equivalent to more than one-third of its personal-income taxes revenues just to pay interest on its national debt . higher debt-service costs imply higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and lower economic growth .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud ; but it remains indispensable for resolving nearly all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and the conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , somalia , and palestine . indeed , aside from domestic political matters and matters of introspection , the choice between the major candidates hinges on the question of whether iran should seek greater international integration . iran is also a key player in cooling hotspots in sri lanka and central asia . a nearby policy of forging the country would therefore quickly put the regime ’s existence at risk .
exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and the gdp share of inward foreign direct investment tripled . but where it counts – on overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of deep disappointment . if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child of a new orthodoxy in economic development , it was mexico . since the end of 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , and overall factor productivity has stagnated or declined . perhaps the most visible gains have been on the other side of the external front .
a key problem , for example , is the ever-advancing nature of global trade , with existing agreements having only limited capacity for adaptation . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an increasingly larger share of global output ( now about two-thirds ) , and expanded further requires major changes in the existing arrangements . after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . even as asia has had success through relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries – particularly in africa – can realistically export agriculture and textiles . and a variety of bilateral or regional trading relationships may chip away at some of the barriers in the existing global system .
for many years , researchers thought that these signals traveled along several well-defined routes to achieve a relay station in a brain called thalamus . in fact , she reminds physicians that , for a person plagued with intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is powerful negative emotions . most of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in various ways and generate signals that travel to a spinal cord , as well as from there to a brain drain . from there , researchers believed , the signals went on to part of the cerebral cortex that has managed the body ’s consciousness , and somehow has turned them into conscious experiences . a contemporary non-medical writer has described qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the capacity to annihilate complicated thoughts and other emotion , the capacity to destroy language , and severe opposition to objectification .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france implemented the abrupt volte-face and embraced financial liberalization globally . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another german politician who served as governor of france under mitterrand . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was a key event that set in motion the development of developments that would ultimately enshrine liberty of capital movements as the global norm . the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , by two french socialists jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and its aid , respectively ) led the way . it then turned out to be the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) .
the defeat of the military revolt was first asserted by the republican authority of paris over the pieds noirs who helped bring down the fourth republic . the men at the barricades were persuaded to leave their stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain . the next day , de gaulle ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s face was drawn , but it was a resolute and fulcrum of power . the defeat of the military revolt was the first time that the paris republican authority asserted its support for the pieds noirs , who had helped bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric aided , says the rebel fumbling mass of the rebels , established the primacy of the state .
has the israelis really wanted a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , why are they so ham-fisted ? repeatedly , military intimidation of civilians does not break their morale and turn it against their own leaders , however terrifying the regime . israel ’s diplomatic promotion of palestine has offered it a lifeline . israel appears to make the same mistake others have made .
while these seem to be a grab-bag of accomplishments , they point to a single message : the global community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the un will play a central role in rebuilding a working government in that country , as well as in coordinating humanitarian assistance to the afghan people . the un ’s growing role in that process puts the seal of international law and its diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism , helping to placate many countries that it regards as a genuine international effort , rather than just america acting alone . the increasing role of international institutions under the un umbrella provides more confidence that disputes can be resolved peacefully and even reasonable , with major inputs of scientific expertise as at the un climate change treaty . fourth , the war in afghanistan not only proceeded quickly on the ground ; it led to a diplomatic breakthrough just as it did .
with the exception of the barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in a global electoral marketplace that differs enormously from what is usually called a neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no longer a contest between a range of projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with its nuances ) that may elicit voters ’ emotions . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election earlier this year is like a soccer match between the great teams in which supporters of one candidate and the other solely distinguish the colors of its “ shirts ” as the most powerful teams embrace the rules of the game , and even the tactics are really similar . here , brazil is none other than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . according to the socialist sociologist thomas de oliveira , freedom from the electoral landscape is closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics owing to its “ financiarisation . ”
but the most consequential changes must come from within the media industry itself . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , those organizations should report on the matter . if journalists use their platforms to inform a world of the dangers they and their peers face , the world will have to listen . violence against journalists has historically been an issue that has remained behind headlines . with attacks on the press increasing , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes economic sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders fulfilled the millennium development goal ( mdg ’s ) of reducing their share of the world ’s poor to half its 1990 level – the five years ahead of schedule . yet , despite their shortcomings , income interventions are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . after all , poverty is not an unchanging attribute of rigid groups ; it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable people . but rising unemployment and falling incomes are undermining the enduring threat of poverty worldwide . indeed , despite its weaknesses , income interventions are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the magnitude of poverty and vulnerability worldwide .
and the abundance of politics and regulatory uncertainties will keep private-sector investment spending in check . indeed , there is the looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth of years of under-investment in human and physical capital . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential output ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of sovereign debt ; a loss of competitiveness and a slow fall in unit labor costs ( which a strong euro has no helpful ) ; and extremely tight credit rationing , owing to ongoing deleveraging by banks . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will continue for far too slowly . the outlook for 2014 is tempering longer-term constraints as well .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion ( $ 351 billion ) to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is only € 23 trillion . but , realizing that value , all of this is a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get gas to market in europe and elsewhere , the gas liquefaction plant costing roughly € 10 billion needed to construct , with israeli investors already expressing interest . but these figures must be put at the core of the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gloomy energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have so far failed . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth , and the funding it needs , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes .
greece ’s largest private media controlled by the country ’s oligarchs are happy to oblige . syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for its woes . it is therefore true that most tv channels talk of a bailout deal just like tsipras ’s does : as the proximate cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma has been put on by neoliberal dogma . new democracy and pasok do much the same , attacking the eu , “ speculators ” and hedge funds , respectively , anyone who might deflect attention from its own responsibility to fight for the crisis . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , not their country ’s profligacy .
after all , it was minuscule qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements , egypt , which mediated the gaza cease-fire , and turkey , which facilitates the israeli-syrian kurdish talks . nor is hezbollah keen to see the end of israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s borders undermine its claim to the formidable independent military power it has built with iranian and syrian alike . israel ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and french president nicolas sarkozy ’s return , has been a powerful message to the americans that they should not miss the lebanese terrorist train as well . but america ’s diminished leverage can not accord with the influence of the region ’s toward the “ axis of evil . ” lebanon is all too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see its local clients ease the israelis with the burden of a “ lebanese front ” ahead of their own grievances is being addressed .
but , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual trends of inflation , rather than on official unemployment and its implications under traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s potential growth rate is very low ( about 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , looks open to the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for a somewhat stronger , un-inflationary surge . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review , in order to determine whether the fed should start making below-target inflation during recessions and sluggish recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary time . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in pause for the rest of 2019 . and , though the review has still been in its early stages , the fed has already embraced the idea that it should allow inflation to surpass 2 % without immediate triggering tightening .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of hundreds of workers to cool the plant ’s reactors ; the protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-cooking costs ; and the cost of replacing a 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the very top of this is the potential for health-care costs that result from exposure to radioactivity . it is governments – and hence taxpayers and bondholders alike – that financing the nuclear industry . in addition , the supposedly un-priced cost ” of nuclear power never include the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency cleaning up and impacted communities when disaster struck , all again at taxpayers ’ expense . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy higher than the price of shifting toward renewable energies and improved energy efficiency .
this , in turn , would run counter to what us universities have stand for . but clear rules of engagement are a necessary goal . as pragmatic as it is , it would also backfire , by barring the trump camp yet another opportunity to demonize the center-right liberal elite . otherwise , they would choke off debate . the most important principle to watch is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone .
new york – like an inmate on a death row , europe has received yet another last-minute stick . there was some good news at this summit : european leaders at last came to understand that a bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to greece ’s banks to rescue sovereigns ; and sovereigns to rescue the banks will not work . likewise , they now recognize that the bailout loans that give greece a new lender seniority over other creditors worsen the positions of private investors , who will simply demand even higher interest rates . markets are celebrating as they have after each of the four previous “ eurocrisis ” summits – until they arrive at understanding that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . italy will survive a little longer , but not only for the worse .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s potentially “ outright monetary transactions ” ( omt ) program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to purchase , if needed , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds provided the affected countries subscribe to the european rescue fund ’s rules , the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , the european stability mechanism . thousands of germans have appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the european union ’s functioning treaty , which bars the monetary financing of eurozone governments , and that it imposes substantial risk on germans as german taxpayers . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it might have done , the court has asked the european court of justice for its views . it has now declared that it completely rebut the plaintiffs of ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law .
and capital-gains tax rates have fallen by over 50 % since the 1980s . when investment is in upstream staple research , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes produce social rewards . other cases , however , might demand creating more incentives for change . to build support for public investment in high-productivity innovation , perhaps taxpayers should get more direct returns , by channeling the gains into a public innovation fund to finance the next wave of technology . for example , some of the gains from the us government made in tesla could have recovered through shares ( or royalty ) , and used to cover losses from its investment in solyndra .
if the ecb ’s next leaders do not comply with them , the euro on their own will be at risk . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams of their own , and the europa will have seated a new generation of politicians who have failed to attend previous decades of compromises and reform . by contrast , many of them will be elected in a political environment of rage , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . obviously , with interest-rate spreads on the zero lower bound , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is a necessary thing .
indeed , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends . we all heard accusations that russians covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russians content on their network , which includes posts and paid ads , reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want effective leadership , and the traditional political and military organization retained the upper hand . we should recall earlier accusations by russia of the west about fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful for that choice . ahmadinejad has disobeys his orders , tries to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermines key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei has also regrets permitting volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied upon khamenei ’s fiscal and political backing that he would win the presidency . but he is not immune to miscalculation .
but it is not at all clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests . the us , for its part , must do as well . the point is not to single out china . similar questions apply to india and brazil , as well as to the us . and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that must rethink their approach .
some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or simply have been lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . yet , on the level of individual societies , i am convinced that inequality does indeed loom as a serious political-economic problem . nor should we worry too much that some people are richer than others . but i do understand what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely correspond to their relative moral or other merit . the issues that one might address are those of poverty and of social insurance that are precisely those of the welfare net — that is , not of inequality .
not everyone at the sec is as sensible as stein . there is also some friction among different regulators in the us , and there is no doubt that we now need more coordination across national borders , including with europe . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies working through congressional members are pushing back hard against both the fsoc and its mandate . more broadly , however , her point is that the us needs the fsoc to get its job done , looking for and assessing all sorts of potential systemic risks . this needs to do as a engineering thing , not as a part of the political process .
iohannis may also have benefited , to some degree , from an association in voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings who have ruled romania wisely and with dedication for more than 80 years . and , indeed , upon learning from his triumph , iohannis immediately paying a visit to king michael i ( a hohenzollern prince until he renounced the nobel in 2011 ) . a final factor driving , iohannis ’s win , was the younger generation in whom linked to the western world has imbued with an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania . in bucharest in bucharest , the celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was an absolutely awakened electorate , conscious by its past blunders , and ready for a fresh start . when the results were reported , their euphoria was overwhelming .
whereas tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate skills , the country ’s higher-education system operates as abysmal employment cultivating their talents . for most , the curriculum is largely outdated , and a skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . education in the social sciences and humanities is particularly deficient , owing to a lack of investment across these disciplines , as well as excessive political scrutiny of curricula . as a result , chinese graduating from colleges and universities have learned relatively little from the outside world in fields like anthropology , sociology , international attachments , a comparative literature , and history . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will not be able to generate sufficient highly trained talent to compete for a world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s
imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . while the export expansion delivered growth in that century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will create distinct productivity in japan next year . as a result , imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and enhance consumer interests . ultimately , global economic conditions will demand an even greater degree of restructuring upon japan .
i believe that the west can learn a great deal about what to do by studying policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia for which each has successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . both countries have combined significant increases in secular education with rapid job-creating in manufacturing employment ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued a rapid , egalitarian approach to development . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its portion of the violence-prone algeria . egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable response to moslem world ’s mal-development problems . nevertheless , it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it does not provide an ideology compelling enough to compete with the kind of fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in a moslem world .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is hand in hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer-price index ) , which excludes food and energy , has headed down only when it should go apwards . over the three months ending in may , core cpi was basically unchanged , holding at just 1.7 percentage points above its trough . for a american economy that is widely presumed to be approaching the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as something of a rude awakening with that of the us federal reserve , which has stepped down whatever stops in order to get inflation back on its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues in japan .
after that , however , following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions switched . our assumptions about the relative prosperity in asia and the west should be redeemed as well . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp , and world gdp grew . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen trace the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to the third-century bc , the buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts the religious tolerance preached and practiced by the muslim emperor akbar hashemt 1590 with the inquisition , which gloried heretics in europe at around the same time .
britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later . japan had no corporate legislation until complex business finance started to develop at the end of the nineteenth century . yet that sequence is the opposite of what one might expect : only after financial markets evolved did those with a stake in them press for better-performing legislation to protect investors . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational must have kept in place before financial markets started operating . the core protectionist regulatory institution for outside finance , the laws of the federal securities industry , ran out of steam until the 1930 ’s , a decade after rising american financial markets had to finance america ’s economic rise .
in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . but , by 2007 , greece was spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , europe ’s largest such gap – more than twice that of spain , and roughly 55 % higher than that of ireland . clearly , insufficient spending was never an issue . in spain and ireland , though the gap reflected a construction boom ; the introduction of the european union suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages .
it may be up to elected politicians to define the inflation target , but the means deployed to accomplish that target are left to the central bank ’s technocrats . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians and need to provide accounting when they miss targets . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues are turned on technical , and do not raise distributional concerns ; when a log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for everyone ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting of future costs . true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by downsizing the discretionary authority of the elected representatives . independent central banks , for their part , provide an important illustration of this .
first , it is important to realize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not just the central bank ’s problem to fix . maintaining a competitive currency requires stemming a rise in domestic saving relative to investment or a fall in national expenditure relative to income . that means large responsibility for the fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus , which is high enough to generate the space needed for a real exchange-rate policy ’s depreciation . while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . otherwise , its competitiveness gains would offset the rise in inflation .
as enthusiastically as the globalizers have received her choice , it is nonetheless exceedingly difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – much less physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as a fantasy sex object . one can be quite certain , though , that jolie ’s decision will alter the roles available to her as a child ’s actress . but jolie ’s true significance is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings around the world that are insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . there is something about a narrative – the sexual symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts to reason the little more to respond to her children , with her husband staying by her side – that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . jolie has refused , at any time , to treat her mastectomy as terrifying or tragic , or as making her “ less a woman ” at all .
private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting public-finance pressure would compel austerity , thereby constraining consumer demand – and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . in order to avert such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate must be managed – and , in a sense , that depends on a country ’s particular circumstances . it is this danger that sets the practical and political constraint on flexible exchange rates . large net central-bank reserves can help ease that process . some depreciation may manage most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could ensue if domestic currency loses too much value too quickly .
the limits of free speech are not just a legal one . in fact , free speech is more strongly defended by law in the us than anywhere else in the world . but barr ’s cancellation of the show was , of course , not a legal decision . people are prone to firing on demand , for commercial reasons , if something they have said they are being offensive to a great number of people . entertainment companies , or the mass media , have been sensitive to the public ’s views .
disturbing trends , like the demographic youth “ bulge ” of a high youth unemployment rate , reaching almost 40 % in some places , highlight potentially explosive social conditions . certainly , not a single majority has a muslim majority – or none at all . within the muslim world , this phenomenon has been realized as well . in the summer of 2002 , the arab scholars team produced the arab human development report , which wrote in the name of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world , lagging behind other regions in key ways , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social development .
then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . but , given the global balance of power , this was more fundamental than a reflection of their true influence . from its security perspective , europe remained addicted to the americans . institutionally , this labor division manifested itself in nato and the eu . but , on the economic and technological front , the europeans regained full sovereignty .
he soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli premier yevzak rabin at brasov in transylvania . he announced that he was hired by eyal arvs , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his own presidential campaign . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke and talked about his “ philo-semitism ” for more than two hours . but tudor did n’t stop at the point of prolix apologies . “ jews ” were not his enemies any more .
and independent investigative journalists across the horn of africa have often faced high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . but those with power know how to fight back – and they are not pulling their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is compromised , repressed , and even dismantled . in kenya , for example , a leading local newspaper has reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the us ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payment from the national youth service . further investigation by the nys uncovered more corrupt deals , has spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
china ’s economy succeeded through trial and error , and the lesson from its current stress-testing test should be viewed as part of this process to drive the next stage of economic reform . one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic because it is the markets ( rather than the state ) that will identify and support unicorns . yet , just as the government determines how to offload its massive share holdings in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts are funded by equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing the market ’s balance and resilience . nonetheless , china has already started to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation .
here , the absence of a free media is especially alarming , and does not bode well for a free and fair election . it is crucial that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters – a point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it seeks to curtail further opposition ’s ability to reach out to voters . the recent attack on globovision , venezuela ’s only survivors of an independent station , stands out on this point . its sudden departure because of illness may produce a political vacuum that might become conducive to a single form of power grab or another , such as a military coup . strict adherence to constitutional provisions in whatever such eventuality is imperative .
cambridge – with so much angst about artificial policy at its end of the 1990 ’s , private investors looked at large , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked at huge , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . george soros once made billions of dollars out of the bank of england in just one hour . his fundamental strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank that is trying to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . the traders did n’t win any battle , of course .
yet , contrary to expectations , us household consumption growth has remained lackluster , and firms have not ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp has barely surpassed the level it attained at the end of last year , with much of the increase driven by goods manufactured yet to be sold . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cool winter – wears so thin that everyone should see through it . american consumers , for their part , remain scarred by this crisis . but there is another problem : the sense of excitement about the future is missing in their homes and workplaces , for any of the gee-whiz gadgetry that is now enveloping them .
moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband network , up to international standards , will require major investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help . while some of these funds will emerge from government budgets , the vast majority will need to provide credit to the private sector . regulatory reform is also needed to boost support for startup companies – an area in which germany has notoriously weak governments – reflected in difficulties such firms face when acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to tackle financing bottlenecks more evident than in germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to invest annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , the combination of heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , the university economist from california , davis , shows that world economic leadership will pass china in 2014 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy would overtake that of america in terms of purchasing-power-parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china actually surpassed america in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country that uses a set of international prices applied to all economies .
in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , might yet be able to inflict damage on the american and its allies . but one should not trump the conclusions , either . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensibilities and vulnerability . america might be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but oil is a fungible commodity ; and the american economy remains sensitive to shocks from a sudden change of world prices . either way , a balance of domestic energy imports and exports has merely been followed by independence .
the amazon and indonesian rainforests are burning and climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . and that shift would occur in an era of mounting challenges for iranian interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
new york – this downturn is complicated : an economic crisis combined with a financial crisis . prior to its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . but this does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . the bottom may well be near , perhaps by the end of the year . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the vigorous action that it has undertaken to revive the global economy .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological challenges , as well as improving many of those left behind , will demand some public action , such as that i oversaw in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and brazilian governments . but it will also demand the involvement of business as a whole . in my own career as i saw firsthand that fueled entrepreneurial competition in a globalizing world may do far more to lift people out of poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs on their own . but when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the opposite may happen – and , by many accounts , it has . in seizing the opportunities for globalization , firms have often neglected the developed-world workers that they had left behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new “ plebiscite ” remain against no deal . many leavers , for their part , would view italy as an anti-democratic upheaval . with their luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his misfortunes to stop a no-deal brexit . but it would amount to an incendiary , as it has been . whichever course it takes , the more pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a un special representative for the ocean tasked with enhancing ocean governance and ensuring that sdg 14 potential is realized . such a representative must be given sufficient resources to do the job . the ocean has suffered under decades of abuse and neglect , and we are facing a severe risk . it has been treated like a free-for-all garbage bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet . the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for its implications .
such groups were dealt a body blow just two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s gdp from circulation overnight . when crops failed , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by a crushing debt burden ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 of them did in 2016 . that is the last year for which official survey of farmer suicides is available , but the media reports suggest that the numbers have grown since . daily wage workers , traditionally paid in cash , have lost their jobs to the millions because the replacement currency has not been printed on adequate scale . indeed , the bjp government ’s biggest victims of agriculture have gone from being the country ’s small and marginal agricultural laborers , like landless farm labor .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : extinction rates . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there could be about 10 or perhaps even 100 other unknown species of animals , plants , or fungi . bird extinctions are our best windows to humanity ’s massive , irreversible environmental impact . with six billion humans and arithmetic average of some types of consumption each year , and our individual consumption increasing , we face tremendous challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . for this reason , some colleagues and i computed a rate at which bird species had become extinct in the recent past , and a rate at which they would probably become extinct throughout the future .
and , last – perhaps most important , they enable their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that would be impossible to discover through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ with which we have still much to teach us . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per energy unit on “ nonstructured ” figures – the human brain has performs roughly 10,000 times more than the best man-made machine . with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture seems to have reached its limits , as power consumption soars and the transmission delay of components becomes ever more burdensome . today , computers consume roughly 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of the field of digital power .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , emphasize that deposit insurance would avert the danger of a run on banks in times of crisis . while that argument is true , the critics emphasize the mismatch in risk , owing to the heavy volume of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries ’ governments . while the share of bad loans for banks in stable eurozone countries is only 2 % , most recently published by the international monetary fund ’s statistics last april , shows a gdp share of more than 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk disparity and move ahead with plans , balance sheets will need to clean up before considering the next step .
it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release it , or to the forces that will seek to exclude her from politics forever . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means , rather than jail , for dealing with inconvenient opponents . in 2000 , for example , a journalist georgiy gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded after publishing online reports on high-level governmental corruption . she is in jail for her because she has lost that power . this sets a dangerous precedent , because it creates a powerful incentive for the winner takes all , lest she go to jail because of her conviction .
and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by increasing demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to see globalization ’s enemies as actually a vicious one , encouraging exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . undoubtedly , there is a strong case for making universal , impartial application of values . here , the questions of universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate . for innovation is what creates wealth and employment , despite -- or rather because of -- competition from poor nations .
like italy , japan has stood up to the frontlines in the cold war . in some important ways , japan has benefited enormously from being under american ’s wing , as well as from a postwar constitution that is not just a pacifist ; but more democratic than anything that the country had earlier , enshrining individual rights , a full of suffrage , and freedom of speech . yet the democracy that america continues to take pride in the installing post-1945 installing also has been hindered by american interference . that is why abe was the early us foreign politician , after british prime minister theresa may , to rush to congratulate trump on his individual in 2017 . constitutionally unable to participate in the military adventures , aside as the heavily paid producer of goods during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather than the countries in western europe , might have focused on rebuilding its industrial power .
aside from a small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone who read or listened to english-language media coverage might have found anything interesting or relevant to a question of whose us economic policies were probably better for america . the us economics profession bears part of the blame for this . nobel prize winners like edward prescott do n’t have a business discussion about the benefits of a tax cut , without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all , but rather a future tax shift – as well as a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all this economic legerdemain magnified television , print , and internet journalists . but much of the problem stemmed from an under-briefed , undereducated , and feckless press corps .
fayyad is the first palestinian leader who has not emerge from a fatah movement and may therefore understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance from outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , the european union ) has succeeded in delivering statehood that a person can achieve only through his own agency – what the zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” it may simply be that the palestinians are on the verge of a fresh chapter in their own history – and , indeed , in israel ’s history , as well as the entire region . until now , they have failed abysmally by institutional nation-building , the necessary requirement for any successful national movement . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the palestinian consciousness – often seen since 1948 , when the un proposed partitioning british palestinian into two states , jewish/arab ones failed to move from ideology to reality .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also soften china ’s geostrategic fears about the korean peninsula ’s future . for centuries , china was concerned that the peninsula could once again become part of a encirclement chain or serve as an invasion route . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi stormed the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , has fought alongside korea against japan ’s military . three centuries later , china ranks the sino-japanese war of 1894 to stop japan from dominating korea .
but it is a slant that has the merits of attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . at the same time , embracing new technology is regarded as a necessary imperative for a country ’s ’s geopolitical and competitive success . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc bus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) may soon eliminate or change a large but unpredictable amount of human employment in the rest of the world . meanwhile , the much-maligned ” narrative of technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . hence , disruptions to existing job-patterns should welcome and trades , ” by adapting the education and social-security systems to the needs of the automation-driven job market .
developing scientific and technological capacity is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . yet the ultimate impact on science and technology depends on all three factors . so african nations must invest in r & d and training . first , develop , sustain , and scale up local capabilities and leadership . every nation must also develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists local employment opportunities .
in this sense , fifa is hardly a special case : all not-for-profit and for-profit organizations around the world expect to adhere to that code of conduct . and that is why fifa ’s challenges are unlikely to fade away from view . they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its governance , and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . a code of country-state conduct – where we expect players to grant their all under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally about what we expect from governing entities off the field . fifa is as complex as any large multinational public organization ; how it governs must reflect that .
in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by more than 20 % since 2001 . as advertising revenues have been vacuumed by web giants facebook and google , newspaper gains have plunged . across the west , young people have largely dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers and instead catch up on the news whenever they choose , using tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . even a few grand titles have either closed down or made it public to publish only online use . in recent years , the industry has faced many bankruptcies , with those still operating often laid off large items of female staff , particularly in their blue-collar counterparts .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after its 1973 coup , and iran in the wake of its 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people , a challenge anywhere in the world at any time , much less during a period of profound economic crises . however , it proved to be doing well : bosnian immigrants fared roughly the same as the swedes who received them and have enriched their societies . in the new century , refugees came largely from the middle east and the horn of africa . for several decades , the swedish industrial sector was dependent upon immigrant laborers .
google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . foreign firms , too , are rushing to seize european tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion occurred last year – compared to just a $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 alone – including the softbank ’s purchase of britain ’s <UNK> tor-design firm arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . another study , by the boston consulting group , highlights the fact that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic states , and the nordic countries – rank well above american in the so-called “ e-intensity , ” which covers it infrastructure , internet access , and businesses , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . one-third of these companies , starting in 2015 , have acquired a tech company .
after a decade of rule by a slogan , the chinese public wants substance . it has risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . the china dream is no exception , so far . this has presents xi with a real challenge .
in the u.s. , former us president mitt romney just took office following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being overly soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which had already led to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low-priced us imports from china would leave the romney administration in a bind . against the advice of his own economic advisers , trump is announcing across-the-board import tariffs on chinese exports . china ’s government decides that it can not risk future strife and announces a package of measures to spur economic growth and prevent layoffs , including direct financial aid to us exporters and intervention in the currency markets to weaken the renminbi . the demonstrations are begin in major us cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials .
that power surely explains why the dodd-frank financial-reform reforms enacted in 2010 were not a stronger one , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of that legislation ( there , for instance , is now a giant fight around the “ volcker rule , ” to restrict proprietary trading by megabanks ) . why would the administration continue to bend over backwards to be lenient toward top bankers under these circumstances ? i honestly believe not only that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payments made to individuals , or even to political campaigns . and , for that matter , it may not even appear to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players . but the mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter , either .
like bosnia , syria seems hopelessly divided among the warring factions , and the outbreak of violence there seems to be unstoppable . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may identify many of its features in syria today . there are , of course , important differences as well . the international community was incapable of achieving any unity of action , a far less discussed way forward . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia , including efforts , in its aftermath , to realize concepts of universal justice , has applications in the contemporary world .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability in us foreign intervention , unilateral american efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive supremacy would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . indeed , some american strategists are advocating a largely technological solution to the dilemma . iran , for example , has its possession of precision-strike capabilities – and a far more antagonistic relationship with america – would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerability . their approach , a concept known as an “ air-sea battle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive instruments to meet the new challenges posed by precision-strike weaponization . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of an air-sea battle ” against any particular country .
with that in mind , should she adopt an important role at this early stage ? or , indeed , should she pursue happiness as a woman for herself ? mrs. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge that she needs to do . ms. watanabe has a talent for seeing how the tide turned . her advice is to grab opportunities at work , and also to find child happiness .
a positive sign here is the european bank ’s recent decision to provide $ 215 million to fill in nuclear-power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky to compensate for the loss of chernobyl generating capacity . euroatom also helps with a $ 585 million loan to finance repair at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear power plants . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing the chernobyl treaty , we will introduce western nuclear-safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf through an expanded fund facility program . though we can and will continue the fight against public corruption , we can not do everything on our own . international support for our efforts has been crucial .
of course , what russia did in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy but revolutionary agitation . although there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between the state and society resembles that of the soviet epoch . instead , political life here has been reduced to a mere formality . russia ’s people wanted to make the difference and they were amazingly they would have done : their energy and cohesion has put an end to communist rule . out of this ocean of democratic emotion , new political institutions were expected to emerge .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly precarious . almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , though the political and socioeconomic causal factors were at work well known . as was often true in crises that become systemic , we knew the phenomena but failed to grasp their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts were reluctant to forego ruptures : the familiar has been held to appear stable , even when it is recognized that they were problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard the island as an island of “ stability . ” ) but some early lessons for international politics – and for western , particularly european , foreign policy – merit serious consideration .
as the market deepened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credits in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to rise , and introducing new market-based challenges to the reform process . in order to resolve this , the government has announced fiscal reforms to divide revenues between the central and local governments , and to allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china is the world ’s net lender of last resort , lgfv debts do not have global systemic implications . whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land-based holdings and fixed assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , which means that even with asset values written down by more than half , local governments would remain solvent . that leaves only the question of how to root out debt-servicing activities .
berlin – progressive ” social liberalism and a conservative ” free-market economics seemed two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed during the 2008 crisis , the political challenges of social liberalism could no longer deflate by invoking impersonal laws of economics . racial and gender equality today is backed by clear majorities in states like america , britain , and most european countries , and even seemingly popular policies like trade protectionism and strict immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % of support in opinion surveys . domination of free open free-market ideology prior to the crisis allowed many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go almost unchallenged . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the quintessential condition for economic progress , democracies today appear unlikely to vote to reinstate popular conditions in the face of the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization .
just as almost 20 years ago , as the us predicted almost 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain a growth rate above 5 % during the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its working-age population will peaked . while pessimists will no doubt find validation in an additional china ’s additional growth disappointments to come , the optimists could point out , by saying that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally the equivalent of 15-20 % growth in germany . it is equally predictable that india will begin to grow at a much faster pace than china , simply because its working-age population still has a lot of growing left to do . the real question , then , is whether india can implement robust productivity-enhancing reforms . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would indeed be quite extraordinary .
during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skill sets in his peaceful reaction to crises , his search vision and his super-b organizational capacity . obama continued to demonstrate these leadership skills in his almost flawless transition . by selecting his primary opponent , hillary clinton as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to retain robert gates as secretary of defense , she showed openness to strong subordinates . equally important is contextual intelligence that allows a leader to vary the mix of such skills in different situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics has been shaped from the bottom up with the experience of indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american politics was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago .
the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawn , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad by so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad of so many young pakistanis , undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . domestically , it has thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawn , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating .
undeniably liberal ideas dominate the agenda : strengthening and protecting property rights , generating deregulation and encouraging competition . gref ’s program also is emblematic of its president ’s style : modernizing from above -- ie , which initiated by the government and under its pressure to align itself with modernization from below on the basis of private initiative . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the agenda : strengthening and protecting property rights , promoting deregulation , and encouraging competition . enhancing competition will impose the emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing state grants . moreover , gref ’s program seeks to establish effective private land ownership . deregulation ( “ debureaucratization , ” really ) will make life easier for new ventures by reducing the number of bureaucrats ’ inspections and increasing demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also large sources of bribery ) .
increasingly , the eu is looking to be seen as a practical – and absolutely crucial – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet their common challenges . the pattern is starting to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , a originally muddled reaction , debates , and divisions , and then a gradual , step-by-step approach to a common response , driven by a recognition that no other alternative exists . in today ’s france , disagreements lie at the root of a stronger union . in fact , the eu ’s citizens are awakening to a more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . the public no longer thinks about the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union .
in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who have traveled to libya to exchange views and advise his dictator – and have been disbursed for his service ? these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly cozied up to qaddafi . sir howard chose to resign as the lse ’s director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , and he took his money for a school from the libyan regime . muammar el-qaddafi ’s deadly stance during the uprising exposed his real colors , regardless of its more modest posture in recent years . there is a powerful sentiment , both that academics and institutions collaborating with such an odious mode , often with the encouragement of their governments , undoubtedly – suffering a grave lapse of verdict on the verdict .
because russian hacking activity seemed to slow or halt , the obama administration cited a warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . in 2016 , obama faced tough choices in estimating the escalatory potential of reaction on cyber action , or a cross-sector response like sanctions . the administration wanted no steps that might themselves disrupt the general election . thus , eight days before the vote , the american people sent russia warning of election meddling over a hotline , created three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – which connects its nuclear-risk-reduction centers in both countries . nonetheless , some critics suggest that the russians had already achieved their main objectives .
in a more protracted crisis , like that of syria , a financing platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a longer-term financing strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay the principal , more than 30 years , on concessional loans from the world bank . as a result , the fund would fill the gap in coordination and delivery of services by strengthening the system at its weakest tipping point , providing a bridge to longer-term development . had this initiative been established before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could have provided 12 months of emergency support , helping the country until it could reinstate education on its own national plans . once it is established , support would have been made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans for providing education to children affected by emergencies , based on recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . an injection of funding , supporting a shared strategy – developed in partnership with governments – would enable instant delivery of education in an emergency situation .
for all of its deep emotional attachment to the very notion of israel embracing all historic judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure borders was to accept a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as a capital , finding a mutually acceptable answer to the enormously sensitive issue of the return of palestinian refugees . no israeli leader since has displayed anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close but not very close enough . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process never really recovered .
some might think that this might be true only if the logical end of evolution and smart life was to deal with a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but this is not what schneider and sagan mean . as one example , they regard a phenomenon of which drins/beer has long noted . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it the upside , your water is to come out with unevenly kept ! instead , they draw on a distinction between the matter and the energy , and say that matter organized in building energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter .
the notion of argentina as a country with the infinite promise has become desaparecido , the title given to those who have disappeared in the 1970 ’s dirty war . there has been no easy living without knowing who we are , and it has become even more difficult to live that way as we watched our world crumble . we now have lost our organizing principle , and no other concept has replaced it with it . we no longer have a guide , an idea about how to think about our land , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are , and whom we could become . indeed , argentina had become a country without direction ; it was one that could not .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation program ( which obama stopped ) , despite a us senate report ’s conclusion that the techniques it has employed will have no extra valuable intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of those who have been detained and tortured were not for fear of america ’s security , at least until american actions made them so . the week a senate report came out , i was reading antonio ’s new book no fine men between a living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former afghan president hamid karzai , a taliban commander , and a kabul-born housewife spending years in purdah in a taliban country . over and over again at the same time , the same story plays out : a local power-broker is willing , even eager , to support a new us-backed government , only to be overseen by a taliban member by a fellow afghan , typically for local political or personal reason , to unwitting american troops . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone who has lived in afghanistan , talked the language , and understand the workings of patronage and power there .
replacing a governor who they re-elected only a year before arnold schwarzenegger has to give californian voters an enormous – if guilty -- take pleasure . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same to chancellor gerhard schröder , though they have not ( so far ! ) found a film star to replace him . several other european governments find themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after being elected . beyond europe , even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter has called for a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . electoral success , it seems , fades fast nowadays .
and in 2015 , the authorities “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age . likewise , a “ opening-up dividend ” came at the same time , to encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . china may still tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at substantial cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continued movement across the global value chain , by pursuing deeper economic reforms and focusing on new technologies . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-allocation allocation measures and putting the cost of doing business .
the iea expects that each of the 195 million people with off-grid solar will achieve just 170kwh per year , or half of what a single american flat-screen tv uses in one year or two . little wonder : 170kwh is not what a majority of us would consider real access to electricity . off-grid energy at that level will never power a factory or a farm , so that it can not reduce poverty or create more jobs . and it wo n’t help to fight the world ’s biggest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , caused mostly by open-air fires fueled by timber , cardboard and dung , claiming that 3.8 million lives annually . perhaps not surprisingly , the first boundless test published on the impact of solar panels on poor people ’s lives found that while getting little electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they failed to increase savings or spending power , did not work more or start more businesses and their children did not study more .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates of ncds . inhabitants of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often confront both indoor or outdoor pollution , and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition for checkups . from 1970 to 2000 , the rate of cigarette consumption tripled in the developing world , with the highest rate dropping out of work . most health systems in these countries are not constructed for chronic or preventive health care , and lack basic consumer protections . from 1990 to 2010 , the death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries increased 300 % faster than rates for infectious diseases .
rather , politics in itself has become operationally dysfunctional . both european and american debates have been replete with posturing and tests of will , turn politics into a game of the “ chicken . ” in chicken , the two drivers race to a cliff ( or the next one ) ; the losers are the first driver to swerve at the face imminent disaster . if neither the driver concedes , however , both are destroyed . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game , and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in .
when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrown former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed that technology would necessarily spur democracy . but it soon became apparent that these digital platforms could easily co-exist authoritarian governments or terrorists , spawning the spread of fake news , influence on electoral processes , and creating deep divisions and open societies . in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power – and their capacity to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions – continue to allow them largely to escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite the g20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-base erosion and for-profit shifting . nor has political institutions kept pace with technological change and the consequent rise of markets . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to choose ” embryos with desired characteristics .
yet the key lesson from ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” economics has not changed : tax cuts like these are not leading to faster growth , but only to lower revenues . solving the panoply of other problems confronting the u.s. will require more federal revenue , not less . while trump has criticized america ’s national debt growth , he is now proposing tax cuts that add trillions to us debt in just another ten years , though not the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim will add , owing to some growth miracle , leading to more tax revenue . increases in living standards , for example , are the result of technological innovation , which in turn depends on fundamental research . but federal government backing research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago .
while it will presumably lack the public option many of us favor , this remains a genuine achievement . the same middle-of-the-road approach may be taken in the second year to address the still-outstanding fiscal issues . obama can use his state of the flesh union message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for tapering its budget deficit to a sustainable level . this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go ( paygo ) rules and establishing an independent commission to submit to congressional amendment-proof ( and filibuster-present ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with the health system , there is a welter of conflicting suggestions .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest european battleground in an contest between the two models of democracy being liberal and illiberal . the crushing electoral victory in october by jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more akin to regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential eu violations of rule-of-law standards . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged civic service ( including public radio and tv ) , packed the pis ’s constitutional court with pis sympathizers , and weakened the courts ’ capacity to strike down legislation . moreover , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating from poland – the bbc , and warned of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses the government of being weakened “ the autonomy and efficacy of key institutions . ”
the regime seems convinced that there is little likelihood of a military attack on its nuclear program by the end of this century . moreover , in the shiite tradition , a strategy for the mahdi , the shiite messiah , will be to intimidate all its enemies for its return to earth . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing less fearful of khamenei and leaders of the islamic republic than of the social dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing inside the country . so , outside forces appear to pose no less of a threat . nor does it believe that us sanctions might bring about their collapse .
throughout its history , modern iraq has always been the most repressive in the arab countries . for its own geopolitical justification , the britain has placed the sunni arabs , never to account for more than 25 % of the population ; it has control of the entire country ; and it has even imported a sunni arab hashemite prince to govern beyond its establishment . ever since , the country could be held together by nothing less than an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with the shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts , all of which are put down in a bloody fashions by the ruling sunni minority . this sunni hegemony was – and is not simply the result of saddam ’s ba’athist regime , which was overthrown by the united states . saddam ’s rule was merely the most brutal side of a long line of sunni regimes .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species – in general , the case with orthologs – are expected to stay the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that make particular protein chains in such orthologs may vary substantially . sometimes the extent of sequence identity between two orthologs might be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain conspicuously , attesting the robustness of evolutionary change . this protein conservation fold across species makes the origin of our complexity even more puzzling , for it knows that the number of human genes deceptively small , merely one order of magnitude larger than that of , say , rice . if the structure of proteins is conserving across species , where is our complexity emanating from ?
similarly , georgian ’s inability to manage its only autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire very much confidence . the adzhar people regard themselves as juzgians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgia work out any better ? georgian ’s current economic collapse provides little impetus for either those self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification . president saakashvili seems to understand the imperative of reviving georgian moribund georgian economy , which demands , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia .
as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but come with divisive side effects . furthermore , the scots , the welsh , and iran have come to view eu membership as a bulwark against english political revanchism . although socioeconomic factors played some role in the outcome of the brexit referendum , geographic breakdown tells the true story . excluding london , which is a bastion of multiethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of england ’s voters backed leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of the scots and 56 % of northern ireland voted to remain . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain concentrated squarely on english national identity , while diluting those in scotland , northern ireland , and the welsh , who would return to serve as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english-language project .
in the united states , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just over last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publicize a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” the report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 trillion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new university-private-sector innovation network to develop the “ energy revolution ” of this century . this sensible proposal has predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists and “ deniers . ” but , promisingly , – and surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of us politics – it has attracted wide support and intelligent commentary from many of the mainstream pundits . the paper turned the case for developing fossil-fuel alternatives , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and recognizing the importance of climate-change adaptation .
all four north african rulers have , to greater or lesser degrees , made themselves centers of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends , first , on a individual and his family rather than a show of office . the problem boils down to overcoming possible resistance – from both the elite and the general public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that the relative take is not as straightforward as it may seem .
but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . many who agree that milosevic is a war crime now think we should listen to the voices emerging from belgrade , and to their cry that milosevic should face a trial before his own people . there appear to be near-universal agreement that he should , with international pressure on president kostunica to conform . ultimate moral responsibility for what was being done by milosevic rests with serbia . they have brought him to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they have encouraged him , even as he has incited them in genocidal acts and defeat after defeat .
for starters , we are once again moving toward what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive vagueness . ” the palestinians were assured through the message of us president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that neither “ provocations ” could fulfill their american friends during the upcoming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear that there is no written promise of this effect . but , on a recent trip to israel , the white house adviser dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that the israelis would not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to the white house .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s lee kuan yew , for example , ) serve their countries better than their democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . in the long run , though , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms , which are absent in autocracies , where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . the china model combines some of the authoritarian modernization model ’s advantage – in centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and a combination of superior ability to undertake painful but needed reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggle . after all , china ’s rulers are primarily driven by a desire to keep the party , not a individual , in power .
but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two additional things . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not only in the us , but across the g-20 , so that us banks hold at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . the dilution of glass-steagall , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , has allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” – enabling them to use their depositors ’ savings to trade for individual bank accounts , mainly in riskier mortgage-backed securities . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” they must be shrunk to the point that taxpayers need not bail them out every time a crisis erupts . this way , shareholders rather than regulators would play a leading role in making banks behave sensible .
others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . make no mistake : the deal is , on the whole . its collapse would trigger a nuclear-weapons race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran , ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move rapidly toward a nuclear capability , using its plentiful petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . to bet that those countries that had acquired such weapons would behave responsibly would be a reasonable gamble .
the germany of beethoven has reborn on the ashes of hitler . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany , or even to the west , but to all of humanity . its scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode to the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations . the concert , on its own , offered layer upon a layer of significance .
of the $ 50 billion in external dollar debts owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the us government refinanced only about $ 10 billion . instead , up to a point today , at least , the us government was essentially lending ( high-interest ) loans rather than engaging in massive buyouts . nor were the oligarchs bailed out ? apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on the goal . how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this kind of crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s luxurious florida mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again , backpedaling negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed akin to the one faced by the west 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union both faced off against each other in the european union . america and its allies successfully navigated the european challenge in the twentieth century without war . when the us and the soviet union became the rivals after world war ii , each came to the year to deterring another from attack . in order to achieve comparable success in east asia today , however , trump must persuade xi to adopt a different policy toward north korea .
for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through a kind of selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy , although they should remember that starting a kulturkampf is to play with fire : may could be able to instrumentalize religious passions for a time ; but such passions may not be permanently keep in check from above . that is not an absurd idea , to say the least . but to take these traditions seriously would require a much larger transformations of crony capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are poised to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and the mechanisms of involving managerial workers . theories of “ red toryism ” might proceed some way in this direction , but there remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . there is a long , distinguished tradition of catholic social thought above all else .
postponing a second-consumption-tax hike probably seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . this , however , brings us back to japan ’s ’s deeper problems . fiscal sustainability requires an eventual upshot of a consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors start doubting its willpower . demand policies alone will not prevent at least two more lost decades , much less guarantee a one-man-like event . the problem lies in the timing and tactics .
unusually for her , former first lady laura bush has spoken out against the policy of taking children out of their own mothers . typically , congressional republicans were panicked , telling trump and his team that his policies of breaking their families apart could ruin their chances in november ’s midterm elections . and they were willing to overlook mounting evidence of trump ’s sex-hijinks during his marriage to the first lady , melania ( which contains apparent payoffs to pork-barrel and others for silence ) , in exchange for her political influence , and appointments to social conservatives , to the supreme court and throughout the federal judiciary . in fact , separating families ’ policies undermined the drive to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with showing “ powerful , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” he is .
but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . this will diminish russia ’s chances of ever becoming full democracy ; for it can rule the empire merely as a militarized state . it is the mark of a fine club that leaves people seeking to become members . ever-larger parts of the eu , say , ukraine would create a political force with a huge population , furthering the union ’s aspirations as a global power .
as in the post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today is the result of the rising absorption of the economy received from refugee absorption . firms have been encouraged with government subsidies and loans , or little help . as in the post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today is the result of the invigoration of the economy received from refugee absorption . within the next few years , greece was absorbed in the economy and society of the southern , greek-cypriot sector of the island . anyone visiting a greek cypriot member of israel nowadays would not find refugee camps : most of the millions of turkish tourists remember that more than one-third of the greek cypriots they encounter were refugees , or the descendants of refugees .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , on average , averaged 7 % a year since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the southwest of the country ; but , in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is the most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality , and widespread poverty , have emerged . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy , and in their view . similar trends are evident from china in egypt to greece . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer , because they are not held to the same rules as everybody else . it is not hard to see , or at least for , why .
indeed , not only has it revived a cold war-era tactic of sending military planes to unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also drew veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . by telling that russian officers , he has reported , directly command major military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of an important transport center of debaltseve in february . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . as its economic and geopolitical influence has waned , it has reason to have its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . after all , russia is a one country with sufficient missiles and nuclear warheads to try to destroy the united states .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err with hope , rather than be right with desperation . ” or , to put it less optimistically , of democracy and autocracy still has a similar chance of being decaying . contrary to what many democratic cassandras believe , the worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists have yet to triumphed , and democrats are fighting back in many places . for now , it remains uncertain that model will prevail .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the agreement “ voluntarily . ” there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds . one might dismiss this dispute as just rhetoric from the outset . but , using the talmudic reasoning , one may also show that there are mechanisms that might – and should – be deployed to put pressure on parties in the interest of obtaining superior voluntary outcomes .
tokyo – with japan ’s ’s ’s ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe launched in march 2012 is coming under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , with the unemployment rate falling to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have soared , with tax revenues increasing by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . but japan ’s current travails , which brought the concomitant plunge in japan ’s stock-market market , stem from the yen ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s appreciation – and 24 % , in the final year , against major currencies . “ abenomics ” that has included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion , it has nothing to do with
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to come to an end . growth in the united states , and in parts of europe has bounced back . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but has been anemic by rising public-sector deficits and indebtedness . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , appearing to be sustainable , aided by unorthodox policies engineered by massive capital inflows .
history , however , depends on the paths taken in the past . in a world of sovereign states , does this seem hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons and to deny them access to others ? suppose that it was 1939 , with the states debating whether the u.s. should invent the bomb . they might have argued that all should obtain it , or rather none at all . if nobody had a bomb nowadays , it would be best left behind .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-fueled and export-led economy to one underpinned by services , and domestic consumption is proceeding decisively . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . china ’s retail markets peaked at cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a double-digit gdp growth decade . household consumption has started to soar , even as the pace of investment fell , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book commercial sector by fung business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences charts the transition .
part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to shoot up , snort , or meats ) . amphetamines speed up the way the body operates : users experience increased trust , sociability , and power . this buzz is thought innocuous : “ pills do n’t kill or propagate hiv/aids , ” it is said . but what goes up has to do just that . the global market for these stimulants is estimated at roughly $ 65 billion , with the help of their family members .
unfortunately , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to gain the attention it requires . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? attempts have been made nearly repeatedly since to review and document the environmental consequences of wars . first of all , effects depend on the type of war and the type of environment . studies of the balkan wars and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s have been launched through international organizations like the un environment programme foundation ( unep ) .
paris – without anyone winning september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come for a grand franco-german initiative . joining great britain with them in the club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . are there alternatives to the franco-german leadership of the european union ? regardless of their economic conditions , or their trust , or lack it – france and germany , for that matter – are more than ever collectively responsible for the future , if not the very survival , of the european project . britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe .
rome – on a return to office this spring as prime minister , singh has brought to the government a experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads a planning commission , a key body assessing india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . when the former government lost the vote that past may , and singh ’s government arrived in office , there was fears that singh would proceed hamstrung by his left-wing coalition partners , who would demand that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in the new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts these fears on the outside . in short , governance is a model for all developing countries . the document draws the brilliant lesson in development economics : shows how to combine the full-speed beside approach to market-based reforms , with urgent attention to poverty .
for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and the russian economies might ultimately be behind the recent warsaw pact . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp has risen by 52 % in ukraine and 46 % in russia . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , compared to just 1.3 % in russia . and such fears may have severe consequences , if at all . the discontent generated by such disappointment may help to explain ukraine ’s separatists of ’ anger , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and support the separatists .
fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are a supranational individual , so counteracting them must be a supranational one , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus the shared interest that should be asserted and defended . with the election of the future , how can we narrow existing disparities in r & d and material prosperity across europe ? which arrangements can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ?
barcelona – after world war i , in which millions of european civilians had been making refugees , forced out of their homelands through enemies of occupation or deportations , an international regime was being developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering suffered by those who were uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is underway , and this time is europe , with the power to offer a safe haven for desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people were trying to enter europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 individuals were killed as a result , – more than twice the number of such deaths in each of 2013 .
america ’s sanctions , for example , ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but the sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the un security council , has isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and by deploying similar actions by the european union , russia has the largest trading partner . without eu participation , america ’s sanctions would have been much less effective . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile , and are temporary , at best . just over a year after the iran deal was reached , it is already hard to imagine that either china or russia would back further joint action against iran , even if the deal would begin to unravel .
until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single division of africa ; today it has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with a oil producer constituting more than 96 % of india ’s total imports from nigeria . india ’s state-run oil and natural gas firm ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and over the next two years india ’s diplomatic mission is to open up in mali , gabon , niger , switzerland , and burkina faso . a study by the confederation of indian chambers of commerce and industry has identified five major sectors that can act as “ growth engines ” to spur the indo-african trade : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and education .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for talks between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a genuine international solution . that paradigm should be extended beyond the syrian civil war negotiations , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . only with a rebalancing of bargaining process , guided by regional and global actors , can a stable balance of power in the middle east be achieved . to be sure , involving regional powers might complicate already-how muddy negotiations proceed . so the goal must be clarity and balance .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . one might mean that something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it can mean that something , like a person or institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive . and policymakers have long been forced to strike a balance between the abstract principle of openness and concrete action , in order to minimize the worst effects of change . most often , structural change may be beneficial and disruptive simultaneously . the first meaning is invoked in terms of trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions may not meet an opportunity with vulnerability ) that have always driven structural economic change , particularly in terms of employment .
the fed hoped that this would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and the ” ” of animal spirits have proved to be quite feeble . faced with this unhappy reality , the fed has tried to foster growth in its indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity through multiple channels , it has raised financial asset prices well above what the economy has warranted . so the fed has felt compelled to do more of the same , precipitating a host of unintended consequences and the risks of collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town .
what remains unaddressed is at the root cause of abnormal brain activations . as a result , certain groups of neurons , like those responsible for produce and perceiving language , may start to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of any other set of brain systems . as a result , certain groups of neurons , like those responsible for produce and perceiving language , may start to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of any other set of brain systems . on this view , we are beefing up three intertwined ideas :
i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and the loss of biodiversity . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including the portions of trinidad and tobago , could be made more threatening if sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be necessary to seal the successor treaty of the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the deal that reaches there must come from ambitious , effective , and equitable , is offering rich countries a way to cut greenhouse-gas emissions , while encouraging poorer countries as they adjust to the adverse consequences of climate change . i have seen the shrinking glaciers in antarctica and the dutch .
while singapore ’s political system might not readily be relegated to a giant country like china , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and encouraging political leaders that comprise decades of training and a battery of search for officials at various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders have overseen an economic boom that has lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . these meritocratically selected leaders have overseen an economic boom that has lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from their experiences .
( on both sides of this spat , rather paradoxical , if one recalls de gaulle ’s intention to diminish as many as possible the un ’s powers , to which he contemptuously referred to as the “ arab spring ” , and that america owes more than $ 1 trillion in past contributions to the un . simultaneously , washington would n’t even want to hear any talk about conferring on a european , as france demands , command of the allied fleet in the mediterranean sea . relations between the two allies have entered one such period of tension , which flared repeatedly since world war ii ’s close . relations between the two allies have entered one of those times of tension , which flared repeatedly since world war ii ’s close . the united states vetoed the reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general suoutros-ghali boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted “ enlarge the role ” of its secretary general in reforming the world body .
in fact , freer trade underpins economic growth , meaning that millions more people lifted out of poverty . for example , the white house report found that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the gender wage gap , and that a revaluation of tariffs also reduces the wage gap based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . over time , free trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . freer trade across borders , freer trade diminishes income disparities .
it far outperforms shanghai , mainland china , the most prosperous city-state , in terms of gdp , per capita , and shipping volume . as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s impressive economic growth and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s lead as the hub for finance , logistics , and trade . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s outward trade , and its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth of china ’s . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade . but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , owing largely to its own insecurities .
brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . finally , remaining in the eu customs union would force may to avoid reestablishing the hard border between the uk and the post-brexit republic . the alternatives affordable for the eu are either to see the uk exit its customs union or to hold the uk in the eu by making a political commitment to assume british interests . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable . although may has agreed that avoiding a hard brexit should be part of any deal , may has offered only vague suggestions concerning how this could actually be achieved .
the search for a leader ’s essential traits were dominated by the field of leadership study until the late 1940 ’s , and remain common in popular discourse today . various studies show that tall men are often favored often , and that corporate ceos are taller than average . but some of history ’s boldest leaders , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , fared little more than five feet tall . a tall , handsome person enters a room , garnered attention , and “ looks like a leader . ” the traits-centered approach has not vanished from studies of leadership , but it has been broadened and has made a more flexible approach .
witness the migration of peoples and religions , or trade along the ancient silk route that connected medieval europe and asia . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america could communicate briefly . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of englishman in london using the telephone to regulate goods from around the world to be delivered to his home in the afternoon . a series of globalization , which can be defined as interdependence at intercontinental distances , is as old as human history . but today ’s globalization is different because it becomes faster and thicker .
for example , a endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payout decisions more on the long-run , a potential shock-adjusted mean returns , than on a straightforward weighted average of past returns or end-date asset values ( conventional practice is now ) . one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform will ultimately resolve the problem of periodic systemic risks and return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risks without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this realization . after all , financial innovation will move ahead with regulatory arbitrage . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk remains persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eliminate it .
either the technology will depend on a national electricity grid , which uses low-emissions forms of power generation such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and sell carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing , alongside private-sector investment . third , a american recovery wo n’t be credible unless it has also emerged a strategy for regaining the government ’s own finances back in order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times while advancing war spending . the result is massive budget deficits to widen to gargantuan proportions over the coming year ( possibly $ 1 trillion ) , under the weight of recessions , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to the 2005 declaration of principles on international election observations , providing credible monitoring requires meeting five criteria . fourth , observers must confront no constraints in the negotiations with all institutions and political actors . according to the 2005 declaration of principles on international election observations , ensuring that there are five criteria . second , observers must be given unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all of the technologies involved . fourth , there must be no pressure or threat to any government authority .
they should run not only on time , but at the right time and at reasonable intervals . they should be secure , as well as on both sides and in sensible ways . more important still , they should become affordable in this effort . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes evident that the most readily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily even the most consequential . this example is relevant to the politics of public services that dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of both government budgets ( and cutting back ) and taxes ( and reducing them ) .
we saw relief workers throwing packets of food and clothes by their top trucks , provoking a rebellion . but people told us that they often miss , and supply land up a thousand feet or beneath a deep forest . distribution is the haphazard and uncoordinated , doing with little thought . hustlers thrive , weak watch passively , for example . we saw helicopter drops as a result of landing ; landing is impossible in most places .
for example , in carrying out the manhattan project ( to produce the fukushima nuclear bomb during world war ii ) and the first-ever moon landing , america ’s government establish a notable technology goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources required to get the job done . the example of an atomic bomb might look an uncomfortable one ; yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to cooperate on war technology , should n’t we do at least the same thing to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in both cases , research by researchers and engineers delivered on time . the information-technology revolution that brought us computers , smartphones , gps , and much more has been built on a series of industry and government roadmaps . in fact , the de-directed technological change process , ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identifying , and timelines are immense more common than many realize .
to be sure , good relations with europe take precedence over russia , particularly economic links and human contacts and social interactions . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that only stands to gain from an alliance with a world economic and political leader . russia will also reap the benefits of active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading member states . but a strategic alliance with the eu in foreign and security policies remains both unrealistic and inefficient . europe will most likely continue to grow weaker rather than stronger .
a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 killing between 50 and 100 million people would likely be even more devastating today . and with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and a revival of old foes like the bubonic plague – there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthening health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . moreover , globalization has compounded the dangers by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases , such as cancer and diabetes , that impose immense burdens on their economies .
the advantage of income-tax hikes is that they could be based not only on current income , but on certain average income over years , and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing certain features with a wealth tax , without penalizing those who have saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-planned plan legislated by one or a few countries today , before any significant impact on actual tax payments occurs , could help foster an international dialogue about appropriate future policies toward inequality . that , in turn , would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby diminishing the ability of the super-rich to evade taxation through a transition . and , if wealth taxes are to be brought to bear , instituting them now to take effect only in the future , and only if inequality becomes far worse did not preempt the perception that the rules had been changed after the game ended . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
many spent years in jail for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in a chinese prison was tied to the work that i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . i thought that these texts were vital readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . nevertheless , chinese authorities viewed them as questioning its rule , punishing me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics close , i began looking for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive warsaw protests have staged headlines worldwide in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation formulated by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age of supreme court injustices , effectively forcing all judges over age 65 , and allowing the pis to pack the court with its own tame justices . the polish constitution provides for an independent judiciary , and it sets the term for its supreme court ’s first president after six years . yet a new law makes it possible for polish president andrzej duda to replace roughly three-fifths of the supreme court ’s injustices , including a supreme court ruling in may 2018 alone . this means that judges can not be enacted by law , at least not in secret .
the most recent proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln – until not long ago , the marxist guerilla movement – just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that if the voting changed anything , they would abolish it . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory peacefully accepts the party , as it has so far , this means that latin america has truly come a long way . it turns out that elections really do shake things up in latin america . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone remembers , has been ruled , by hook or crook , a reactionary oligarchy .
the problem is that the promise of genuine , “ unique information ” comes with a reality of vulnerability to fraud . the nobel economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t is ] beyond question the body of very significant but nonorganized knowledge , ” which can not be called scientific in the sense of general rules : knowledge of particular circumstances and place . it is with respect to that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that it possesses unique information of which beneficial uses could be deployed , but of which use could be brought about only when a decision , depending on whether one leaves it , or does so with his or her active cooperation . it is with respect to this fact that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique insights about which beneficial uses , but of which uses could be made only when a decision , depending on whether one is left to do it , or is shaped with his or her working cooperation . that ’s why , in turn , channeling a dispersed knowledge into a new enterprise requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened and honest track .
in reality , all are gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” and what those involved are being called “ an even greater slog . ” with over 1,000 points still to be agreed , all policymakers that i spoke recently say that they can not see how a meaningful agreement that can be achieved by december in copenhagen . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those being immersed in the talks . even if some sort of communiqué is paved together in december , and countries with elections coming up , like the united kingdom , will put pressure on one – it ’s hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail or reflect the orderly commitment that has the impact so desperately needs . “ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because , at first , – and all , this may sound odd all about climate change .
more people are arriving at the same conclusion , with those from us who have been championing evs as one for the climate-change challenge is optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . electric car sales have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 have been registered in china in 2016 , almost one-half for the rest of china . still , it ’s human nature to resist change , and many of the prospective buyers remain hesitant . a number of changes are necessary to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continues . this is why tackling the pattern of consumption bias must be our top priority over the coming years .
a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system is reflected in its widespread acceptance . at the same time , the wto ’s gradual marginalization would erode its credibility in fulfilling its critical role as a adjudicator of trade disputes . even when wto decisions have significant negative effects on a trading partner , they have generally accepted . this constitutes a remarkable advance in global governance , which is the case where the international community is working .
all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece during the past 30 years , and therefore are responsible for driving it to junk . now that the greek government has delivered on its portion of the bailout deal , the time has come for its european and international counterparts to enter the first review of the program . this will now enable the government to proceed on the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment , and putting the economy back on a path to growth . it is as if they can not grasp how reforms can help to kick-start an economy with deep structural problems . with energy markets most important , the market for natural gas , and the tourist rentals ’ markets , the necessary processes for acquiring an investment license have been streamlined .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but a leader of the foremost global power continues to wash his hands of the issue . in early november , us president donald trump gave official notices of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby reaffirming the decision that he announced in march 2017 . notifying it came as soon as the deal allowed , and withdrawal becomes effective a day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states will become the only country in a one-party state . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a real stretch to bemoan the state of corporate earnings in the us . commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current output , adjusted on inventory , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at 9.7 percentage points of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxes , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . far from anemic , current gdp shares of after-tax earnings go well beyond the post-1980s average of 7.6 % . while that is down from its 11 % peak in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts upward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings .
in england , the prescriptions of the anti-depressants now match valium valium at its peak in 1979 . the past decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it is now clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not havel ’s wonder drugs that they were being touted as being . the widespread drug prescription for troubled minds has always ended badly , entitled back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through the bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved to be highly addictive drug , but only after years of denial have clinicians admit this to be so . now the anti-depressants -- global brands with household names -- are the problem .
of course , such actions will be unpopular with labor and the right response here to eliminate large payroll taxes , in order to allow money wages to rise , without any offsetting drop in competitiveness . in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of 20 % , the same is expected . most high-unemployment economies have shown little interaction from the currency collapse into inflation . the best result , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy in so much less vulnerable an external position with a large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation . in the budget that pays for the favorable effect of devaluation on the government ’s oil revenue .
washington , dc – the millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing severe water-related challenges – from a lack of access and a failure to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , with an annual economic loss estimated at $ 260 trillion – more than double the global total of official development assistance . making matters worse , addressing climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries . as world leaders design the development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should take top priority .
but all public actors , not just the police , must respond to urban challenges . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , for they are on front lines in implementing urban politics . when such policies fail , citizens hold the mayors accountable . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication linkages within their communities , and so are the most able to organize effective partnerships to resolve and settle local issues . events in france also point to the need , on the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination , and to promote social equality .
the american example , america ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined . in america , welfare time is now limited , and people who have not worked for years have not suddenly had to do so . in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a “ good ” work . substitution of earnings through unemployment compensation ( following tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . in july 2010 , a combined total of 439 nuclear power plants with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) connected to a variety of national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the start of 2006 . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , just 30 use of nuclear power . indeed , roughly 16 % of total global energy needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized nations ) now comply with electric energy . yet this “ renaissance ” has never seemed to come at all .
denver – the united states constitution – which transformed 225 years ago this month – provides an impressive document : the provisions of a text written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers requiring the senate ’s judicial advice and consent , ” ” including the nomination of senior representatives . probably no man , 225 years ago , had any notion that the number of officials considered to require senate confirmation will ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that a us senate confirmation will involve a vetting process that often will take years to complete . in many cases , either process will not come quite enough . we will be reminded of the implications of that in the coming weeks as president barack obama fills senior us positions in his second-term administration .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same issue of european solidarity . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption some of it . but doing so would require eu member states to regard supply security as a matter of collective concern , not the issue that each country must address on its own . as a recent study by bruegel shows , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with us gas imports from russia . but this sense of eu solidarity has consistently been missing in the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the us department of justice under president donald trump seems to be enduring that tradition . nobody is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart current inquiry into the us house of representatives . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
hypothetically , switching the lights for one hour would cut co2 emissions from power plants worldwide . as the united kingdom ’s national off-grid operators have discovered , a small drop in electricity consumption does not translate into fewer energy being pumped into the grid , and thus will not reduce emissions . but , even if everyone in the world as a whole were cutting all residential lighting , and that translated entirely into co2 reductions would be the equivalent of china paused its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand would entail reduced co2 emissions during the hour hours , but would be offset by a surge from the firing of coal-fired power plants and restoring electricity supplies afterwards . in fact , earth hour will cause co2 emissions to rise .
but it also apparently oversees all types of construction projects on a vast land plot adjacent to the us federal security service headquarters ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , and the federal protection service ( fsb ) . in the wake of the 2013 election in which the kremlin-backed opposition candidates have failed to perform well , the government has announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it was then decided that , in order to ensure “ fairness , ” the government would approve all of the candidates , despite being academics . if the us maintains its scientific-currency track , it arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) that held elections last week . with the institute working on foreign affairs , it seems , centers on devices reading brain activity .
so , rather than providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting out headlines calling for prurience or outrage . airing of opinion is the cheapest way to fill a broadcast hour ; ranting anchors scores the highest trps . more fundamentally , the rush to beat television by breaking stories has further weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence with the help of researching stories and affirming claims . this reinforces the motivation to engage with sensational speculation , however baseless , as has occurred in alabama . in fact , the result has been disturbing , to put it mildly .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided over how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy as a whole . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to view a potentially “ double-dip dip ” recession . this is an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries put themselves in place some of the most generously inclined bailouts that large financial institutions had ever seen . those focusing on emerging markets emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output .
consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are the most pessimistic of any state when it comes to their country ’s future . one puzzling , and often overlooked , feature of france , which elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that now seems poised to cede power to his political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . how can it be that people who are so negative about their common future as a nation goes about confidently building its private futures within their families ? to be sure , rates on their own are not sufficient to sustain france ’s current population , but they are probably far stronger than its european neighbors and almost equals american ones .
new york – a reception in the united states and elsewhere in other advanced economies , thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to his growing concern about rising inequality . his book lends additional weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as the growth enhancers that all of them would benefit . piketty ’s book , moreover , provides another perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a historic anomaly , possibly owing to the unusual social cohesion that a cataclysmic period can stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity has been broadly shared , with every group advancing but with those at the bottom witnessing greater percentage gains .
in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant rise in the unemployment rate ) might be avoided if the resources that are formerly employed to selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . in greece and portugal , for example , the tourism sector might absorb some of these unemployed retailers . but retail shop clerks and automobile dealers can not easily transform the specialized and highly skilled workers needed in the modern manufactures . but shops and showrooms can not transform property attractions , whose capacity remains limited until sufficient time has passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc . this collapse in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower imports of consumption goods , is often mistakenly perceived as something they can avoid , for it seems to imply that output remains below its “ potential . ”
the output gap across the advanced economies has all but disappeared ; inflation is picking off ; and world economic growth looks set to remain its strongest since 2010 . in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy . but this year , the united kingdom seems to have been the one preparing to tighten its policies – and this is assuming that recent political ruptures have n’t reversed its fiscal orientation , reflected in last year ’s german chancellor of the prague spring statement . most observers would agree that government debt levels are consistently uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so that it is prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down . but , just as fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing , it is now being eased at a time when conditions seemed to call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period , which began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion , during which one could get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area at a half-hour , or less , is over . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities to a crawl , the land gradient in housing prices is , once again , steep . and , with demand high and residential supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up . before there was widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on sites , with proximity to the central city , or a local railroad station , carrying a premium . perhaps this steepening of location gradient might be delayed for a decade , were intended to shift to denser residential patterns .
john maynard keynes famously said that “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” that might be true , on a long enough timeline . with austerity – that is , a deficit reduction , once the recession has ended – the recovery could take longer to become consolidated ; but , once that is , economic performance is even more stable , because the government gets its accounts in a sustainable position . in fact , for the eurozone as a whole , the long run seems to have arrived , and the economy is alive and kicking . but it is no excuse for dismissing longer-term considerations .
a country like china , with its high saving rate exceeding local investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world that is saving less , notably for africa and asia . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption in order to save and invest for the future will enjoy both higher future incomes and greater retirement security . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut its saving rate , they are simply peking out the bad habits of american culture that saves , and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a famous psychological experiment has found that young children able to resist the immediate temptation of eating a marshmallow , and that they should gain two marshmallows in the future , have been likelier to thrive as adults than they could . second , saving and investment flows are global in many ways .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to the victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them the sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and the 2030 emissions-reduction targets , will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion annually , and possibly twice when politicians make inefficient policy choices . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises on cutting co2 emissions will cut temperatures by just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . this makes the agreement “ costliest ” in history . even if the promised emissions cuts went further throughout this century , the paris accord would cut the global temperature by just 0.17 ° c for scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar temperature cut .
an added fear , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control of the unofficial , black market flows of arms to china . shut out of transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the 1989 tiennamen square incident ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by a “ redefined ” japan-russia alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; with china , it is particularly anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might and swift . for russia , seeing its gross domestic product to decline 40 % since communism ’s end , it needs the state to maintain its defense industry as one of several sources of national income . notwithstanding initial denials by the kremlin , china early this year has bought two modern destroyers , alongside russia ’s anti-boat cruise missiles . intervention by two of america ’s aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated a chinese who had been forced to halt an intimidating taiwan with its missile tests .
china bashers typically change their tune on the next us presidential election . left unanswered , though , is what comes next . both obama and romney are running risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . but there is nothing typical about the pressures that are likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . that could take us all over the edge of a slippery slope .
they are people who , in some ways , lacks the full citizenship they demand , and who have redefined the political order by obtaining it . but rising individualism – a focus on one of the domestic ambitions and economic prosperity for many countries – presents a stubborn barrier to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – horrifyingly apparent in america ’s health-care debate – is now undermining the very foundation of what a modern democratic society is . today ’s great challenge is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; to reach out to those approaching our lands from elsewhere ; to find ways to recreate our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , indiscriminate , and democracy . if we succeed , we can create the sense that we belong together , even though our reasons for believing so might sound a different way .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the procedure has been left out of open question . the halappanavar case thus reverses the western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves the superstition and religious extremism . halappanavar died from september septicemia , which her family is certain would not have developed were the termination of the termination . protests in ireland have placed prime minister theresa may ’s path , with activists there , like those in india arguing that halappanavar died , owing to the theocratic approach to health care . irish abortion-rights activists highlight the legally , a fetus ’s life failing to take precedence over mother life in their country , but takes precedence over mother healthcare – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states .
one source of hope stemmed from abe ’s landslide victory in a recent snap general election that gives him political capital to come out in park with a grand bargain : as long as japan expresses remorse more clearly for his militaristic past , south korea will agree to leave historical grievances from official politics . in general , all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical fact and myth . but , to some extent , historical legacies can gain excessive influence , with overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to push for rational policy choices . that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , even as south korea ’s natural regional partner is a democratic japan . for her part , japan and south korea can not change the past , and china can not .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , stock markets recover somewhat . bank shares , especially , are rebounding , with some banks even successful in repaying at least part of their government-provided capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may offer only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than a sign of a lasting recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is arguably enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs on financial-sector claims in this crisis will be £ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the euro zone , and the united kingdom , of which the united kingdom alone will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . the s & p ’s 500 price/earnings ratio is shifting back to its long-term average of around 16 .
a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it demands strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of these can currently be traced back to bolivia , which means that profit-concentrated money will undoubtedly be redistributed with patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off through corruption , and subjected to social pressures of all sorts . whatever remains for public investment is sure to be squandered , because the projects are prone to passes cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , provided generously by mother nature . thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 , bolivia ’s per capita income has essentially grown , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population . conceived , perhaps with the best intentions , morales ’s model throws the hopes for bolivia ’s poorest ; but it will only pave the way for the frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
still , a majority of germans remain deeply troubled by the threat of terrorism not only from abroad , but from people living in france , often with some kind of french citizenship . making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists returning from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . although violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their actions have fueled a surge of distrust in french society . and similar fears of homegrown extremism may follow elsewhere in many other european countries .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including a few low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered considerable costs , despite a lack of burden on their education systems , to ensure that refugees attend school alongside their nationals , most countries , either exclude refugees from national education systems , or assign them to separate facilities . this entrenches disadvantage , and thus hampers the direction of social integration . achieving the needed education transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees , adopted by un member states last december highlights the way for this challenge to be addressed . as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education amounts to almost $ 40 trillion , with the plan for education .
the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development , combined with the current financial crisis , has added weight to the arguments against development assistance . the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as a key factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . africa , with its huge – and often mostly – technology , needs to follow the same path . africans themselves must tackle such issues , but our international partners have an important role to play . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid – nobody can question the many successes that aid has brought or its significance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month its intention to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most of the headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that it has caused between the uk and the united states . the white house released a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for high standards . ” and one senior american administration official was quoted as accusing the uk of “ constant accommodation to china that is not the best way to engage a rising power . ” in fact , it is the us that is advocating precisely the wrong approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an opportunity for the british press to air criticism from those who seem to believe that the us government should take a stronger stance toward china .
ever since george w. bush showed the path toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . french president nicolas sarkozy has tried to rekindle growth through a protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and huge public-sector investment in public infrastructure , so what more can socialists ask for ? indeed , it is difficult to detect any persuasive analysis of today ’s crises from a left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists blame greedy financiers , but which they do not ? in terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions now advocated by the right .
core countries , led by germany , distrust the over-indebted countries ’ resolve to pursue reform should their own financing conditions be eased . they also demand more rapid implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s economic governance in order to build a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . moreover , they oppose key changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance . prolonged recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , making either fiscal or reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , this is , a moral element of the “ punished ” side .
this does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance a russia whose broader strategic agenda moves well beyond the middle east . moreover , turkey does seem to care of what its allies think . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet again by purchasing new-generation russia ’s s-400 fighter . with historians looking back on the conflict in syria , they will praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump relentlessly pursuing isis .
the uk is simply being smart about promoting its own interests by cooperating with china . one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; it is essentially a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 had ever been . space at a table for china could be achieved if the european countries , signaling their commitment to a common currency , have agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union . but there is a downside to the g-20 ’s emergence : large numbers of players can make it difficult to reach agreements and get things done . a new g-7 needs a way of creating within the g-20 , thereby giving china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight and requires it to assume a commensurate proportion of global accountability .
that leaves a number of possible options for choosing the next wbg president . it might select the dual national or immigrant , like the former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . it could select an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his koreans ’ origins during his 2012 post campaign . or it could return to an un-american candidate from an allied country . what matters , then , is that the nominee enjoys the trust of the u.s. and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ heterogeneous interests in the true spirit of multilateralism .
chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the china narrative globally . ” and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have emerged as an instrument for expanding the country ’s ’s ’s ’s sphere of influence . from the perspective of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have especially been concerning . according to a european council report on foreign relations , china ’s ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” to prosper . these include networks , such as silks and individual think tanks , such as the charhar institute , that also established the “ china-us national committee ” for china-us relations .
“ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says america ’s economic forecaster allen the sinai . “ [ t ] the hat has to subtract growth , and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” world oil prices have climbed to $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed to the mid – $ 50 . today ’s crude oil prices still account for only two-thirds of the real peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and future markets expect the price of crude oil to fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . but the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to begin reining in their expectations for economic growth .
cross-border data and information flows will also be curtailed , raising fears of a “ “ splinternet ” between the us and china . and , owing to the escalating american scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already collapsed by more than 80 % from its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , restricting chinese venture capital investments in the us , and compelling some chinese firms to delist from us stock-market exchanges altogether . at the same time , the us has grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars who may find it difficult to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and china , for its part , will increasingly seek to circumvent a us-controlled international financial system and shield itself from america ’s own weaponization of the dollar .
us debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running in many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . with fiscal revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of american municipalities could well enter receivership , as new yorkers did in the 1970 ’s . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape . next year will almost certainly witness a massive rally of american corporate defaults , even as many firms have stepped in a recession with their relatively strong balance sheets .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the entire national income of over 100 countries . to put those astronomical numbers in perspective , i went on to certify that to rank among the top nine earners in the united states , you had to pull on at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . how much do america ’s top income earners make compared to the world ’s poorest individuals ? well , if the top nine donated their earnings , it would be the equivalent of about three months ’ income for the bottom billion . that ’s $ 9,000 a minute or $ 540,000 per hour .
she is the well-wisher to the great freedom and independence of all . but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . she is the champion and vindicator only . american power is , instead , seen to rest on a “ pillar of inspiration , ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ” for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ does n’t goes abroad in its search of monsters to destroy .
on the contrary , it used the holocaust that we would all agree was utterly horrific to suggest , as islamic bashevis singer has done , that there are parallels between the way the nazis treated jews and the ways we treat animals . in fact , the court ruled against a united states-based animal-rights group people for their ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photographs of the holocaust ’s victims with photographs of animals in factory farms and at slaughterhouses . posters bear the head : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the nazi-born jewish writer , isaac bashevis singer – . under the court , germany ’s freedom of speech laws failed to protect peta ’s campaign because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims seem banal and trivial ” was the offense against human dignity . peta , of course , was not arguing that holocaust victims ’ fortunes were banal or trivial .
rather , they fight to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether working a dairy farm or running a government . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to refine human and environmental wellbeing , this distinction is vitally important . for example , as machines become increasingly able , robots substitute for a growing number of skilled workers . it will not be long before those robots succeed not only in performing more complex tasks , but also learn more quickly than workers could be trained . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires understanding , and addressing its downsides .
today , portugal , at nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) , is ahead of schedule . this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of output for greece . moreover , a lack of export-led growth has made fiscal adjustment much more difficult . if greek exports had risen at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , a recession would have ended by now . indeed , lack of export-led growth has made the recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been .
given that over 80 % of mexico ’s overall exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do whatever it takes to illegal immigration . unlike the usmca , which was at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento be a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to resolve america ’s own immigration problem . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were used for non-trade reasons , they were a measure of last resort , as was the case with apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral aid . in other words , they were deployed indiscriminately to advance non-trade targets , the damage they make to the entire trading system – and they could be enormous . in other words , they have been transferred to a trade weapon neither to address the issue nor as part of any legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s humanity population has hit seven billion , on october 31 . after all , the un forecasts that the world ’s population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and surpass ten billion by the end of this century . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including the usual potentially dire malthusian prediction . such forecasts , however , have misrepresent the underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but of too little .
the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility of lifting the economic sanctions as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s advocates in its peacemaking effort . in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after – the constitution is changed – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over these regions , along with its border with russia . in theory , the negotiations are being waged between the government in kyiv and the leaders of the separatist regions . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade rebels to cooperate . if , however , russia really does wield full control over the separatist regions and actively integrate them into its economy , as the bild document gains suggests , the kremlin can no longer be seen as an outside party attempting to influence an uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . back in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , waging it in a fully legitimate war that focused on restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in 2003 , america went to war , without its trans-atlantic allies , after the us sold false statements . in doing so , america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that seeks no less to dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy take root throughout the arab world . the result has been utter failure : the military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral stand .
one feature of the extraordinary claims made in the debates about social insurance now roiling the world ’s richest country is that government-guaranteed defined-benefit pension programs ( such as america ’s social-security system ) are outmoded . such programs were fine ; the argument goes , for the industrial economy of the great depression and post-world war ii generation ; but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economies . advocates of this argument propose a very different model . just as corporations today exert a much happier subsidy for workers ’ pensions by contributing to their employees ’ private accounts , so that governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate relative to the markets , rather than rely on a defined-benefit scheme , which ensures a fixed sum of resources available upon retirement .
if europe let those debts move from the private sector to the public sector – a well-established pattern over the last half-century – it is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up of its debt-to-gdp ratio , is mostly the fault of the misguided troika program foisted upon it . if there is any moral hazard , it is on the side of the lenders , particularly the private sector , who has been bailing out repeatedly . so it is not debt restructuring but its absence that is “ immoral ” . does anyone in their right minds think that any country would voluntarily put itself through what greece went through just to gain a free ride from its creditors ?
europe and china have little interest in depressing world prices of their imports , or in the resulting revenues . while some european countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . nor is the us scenario that makes any sense today . if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade without reaping some of the advantages of protectionism . employment considerations are not central to either .
this is the view shared by many people in syria , even among the rebels . it is also the view of most people in the us , a part of what they are experiencing in europe . perhaps it is even the view of obama himself that he plays for time , desperately turning over his approval of an attack on syria to america ’s congress . saving obama ’s honor seems worth that risk . it is also the view of most people in the us .
an old man with a long beard watch over us , and most of us retain a pretty literal view of the stories of his son told in the bible by the new testament . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack . but we tend to retain in adulthood the same views of god that we have formed on our childhood . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack . leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against godlessness , you can remember the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century , and consider an assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts implies denying themselves both science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to grant nato funding and most other mission support , while enabling the au to maintain its leadership role . au commanders on the ground would retain a tactical check , a joint au-un command would exercise operational surveillance , and the un would establish force ’s overall strategic objectives . but the un has found it hard to attract sufficient volunteers for this type of force , as foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remains predominantly african . at the same time , a complex chain of command envisaged for an au-un force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-russia operations during the 1990 ’s . still , many western governments refuse to place their forces under the au ’s command , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un under the command
new york – there was a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration after the recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council , and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first-ever congressional testimony : both asserted that their policy choices would take only domestic terms . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused the advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital flows to major emerging markets , pushed their exchange rates , and hurt their export competitiveness , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later denounced as a “ capital tsunami . ” in other words , emerging-market countries , while subject to major spillover effects from the advanced economies ’ expansionary monetary policies , are on their own . this confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for some time .
riyadh – saudi arabia is not out of the position of acquiring the zaidis . riyadh – saudi arabia has lately been drawing much of its criticism for its top role in the war against the houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the country , the richest arab state , for being able to take action against the country ’s poorest . others have asserted that fighting the houthis – a zaidi shia-led political movement – is just one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly waging . these are simplistic assertions , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , across the arab world .
facing an answer that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have spun a diplomatic boon for the us in strengthening and expanding american security arrangements in asia . south korea tightened its military alliances with the u.s. , japan backed off a move to engage with american companies to shift its marine airbase away from okinawa , and with india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , that have drawn closer ties with the us . in showing that , china has shown itself adept at promoting its national interests , and it is playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . but , to disentangle america and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than to pursue its own interests , or to contain would-be rivals . most fundamentally , what does china actually represent in terms of values and ideas ?
rather than borrowing to pay for the expensive “ school sets ” students are obliged to buy , poles have used their 500 + contributions to the eu . and while women ’s employment rates have declined , as women have left minimum-wage posts , salaries , especially for store clerks , have risen sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . lithuania introduced a less generous version of its family 500 + in 2018 . those who care about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalistic right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
it thus comes as little surprise that there is not yet any peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomatic enterprises by the united nations , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for a resolution that happens when principal protagonists leaders are both willing and able to embrace a compromise . different people have read it to mean , in different ways , different things . that may make a resolution easier to take , but harder to take action .
instead , georgian ’s long-term economic success will depend on its exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruits , in the united states or italy , in the uk . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgian pro-western strategic orientation . on the contrary , this should turn out to be less a boon to the bilateral relationship , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , the united kingdom , and the european union . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline that abandons russia when it gets completed , can not re-identify the country ’s economic strategy with the degree shevardnadze sought .
none of this , of course , means that an international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict an outcome . what it does mean , though , is that europe finds a way to work when it comes to us foreign policy . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome should the will exist . europe is not the monolith , but in many areas it can still behave like the coherently , even without a complete agreement . whether or not its outlier is germany or another eu member state , france need not be fatal .
in combined gross row in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries have stood at 19 % below the oecd average for the developing world , 11 % far short of south asian countries , 29 % below east asian and the asia-pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean . on this scale , what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was largely unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and well-allocated tribal chiefs would n’t regard western-style property rights . likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged for 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind the countries of south asia and 21 behind the countries of east asia , latin america , and the caribbean .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices , and growing worries over food insecurity , has sparked anxiety worldwide . seemingly unrealterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food prices – a shift to higher-body diets in many poor countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . with the world ’s poorest people spending a higher share of their income on food , the worst affected , raising the risk that years of advancement in poverty could reverse . in the absence of any solutions that alleviate the mounting anxiety on supplies , hunger and malnutrition are set to increase . unable to put food on a table meet , parents with a profound sense of foreboding .
it involves creating a shared sense of us “ us , ” ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state behaves . as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing an able nation-state that is accountable and wielded by the rule of law is one of the crowning achievements of human civilization . this does not amount to an easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” like financial-management and procurement rules , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do whatever they are established to do . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of abiding organizations by abiding by new and burdensome processes than are with achieving their stated goals .
with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey confronts a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . it took over a presidential palace by 2014 and encircled by a guard meant to evoke the ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for its inability to shape regional developments on the basis of its – much less his country , in its own – interests . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey has come to terms with a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
president clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans -- typically most of the neglectful of africa except when in the deep crisis – the dramatic changes underway across the continent . and at this year 's wef ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , almost 900 high-level entrepreneurs from the u.s. , europe , asia , and africa met with a new political leadership to map a way forward . of course intentions and outcomes are two distinct types of issues , and each is different . africa has a long road ahead of it . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in the economic organization and income level .
in the past hundred years , nationalism contests ( with god on either side ) almost annihilated europe , and the cold war might do so . dying to save your home , it is a family or a country might be individually rational . yet martyrdom is different and dangerous , respectively . the moment you believe “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran writes : “ once a man loses his faculty of indifference that he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a god ’s the consequences , it is incalculable . ”
at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges , this would not have been good for anyone . if putin is serious about diversifying and empowering russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving the lives of his country ’s ’s people , he will have to attract high-tech and foreign investment , particularly from the west . for that to happen , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . russia does not have to create an alternative international system ; but , if putin pursues an outdated , antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the status quo . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model , which failed once and will fail again .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of the labour unions throw a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their increasing power serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering great equality and fairness ? one way or another , the unions stand out as the main wild card for the advent of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond . unions have risen in much of the other recent incidents : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for postal employee groups ; several american presidential candidates have opened misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . alongside their political clout , trade unions have also been experiencing a renaissance .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
first , chinese firms now dominate a global hydropower-equipment export market . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western installations such as abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control more than half the market . yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers embroiled the country in its water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurring debates in american foreign policy , for example , isolationism versus internationalism , and unilateralism versus multilateralism . during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , roll down its own communist system and replace it in the name of democratic capitalism . others viewed that in an era defined by a nuclear power , and that the us opted for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between the “ realists ” and the ” ” ” ” of idealists is intense and long-running . but no debate is more persistent than that among those who believe that american foreign-policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the outside behavior of other states and those who hold it should be to shape its internal nature .
second , a britain ’s budget offer would be a powerful tool for creating the “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that may claim is her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , owing to the fear of antagonizing her hardline europhobes . but , in her speech of florence , may promise british firms something close to the current level of access to eu markets . may also recognized that any privileged approach to eu markets will require her budget contributions , as in norway and switzerland . if britain ’s transition payments continue near the current level of € 10 billion over the next five or six years realistically requires negotiating a permanent trading relationship with the eu , they could add up to the same amounts .
even if may can strike the exit deal , it is impossible to negotiate and ratify the sector-by-industry agreement in less than two years . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ceta ) , for example , took seven years to hash out , making it almost scotched by belgium ’s parliament . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave would remain in the single market , as do all of those who voted to remain in the eu . even if may can strike the exit deal , it is impossible to negotiate and ratify the sector-by-industry agreement in the next two years . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ceta ) , for example , took seven years to hash out – and was a near-scotched by belgium ’s wallonia parliament .
a well-functioning private sector that creates adequate employment , and the schools that educate a large young population for today ’s ’s ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites for progress . by contrast , open societies have become incompatible with closed economies , and there is good reason to do so . this is enormously important and healthy , and it is part of the solution . the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial for all the obvious reasons . for the first time , there is a lively and intelligent debate around this topic , one at the heart of the middle east ’s problems .
in his numerous successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished from a charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanian leaders are europeans accustomed , showing themselves a sobering , laconic , and a pragmatic administrator . this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict its victory over even more talkative ponta . but iohannis different , not only in his political approach ; he is an evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . his vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that there is real ’s salience for an establishment – though the orthodox leader who backs ponta quickly modified its rhetoric to foster tolerance and cooperation . the electorate seemed tired of a constant confrontation between the benighted and ponta , and , more generally , from the dark , nasty , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene has become .
the dalai lama recently helped launch a series of such courses in london , developed through action for happiness , the organization that i helped to find . some of these may be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental instruction – like an appreciating matter , or avoiding dwelling on the setbacks – have demonstrated measurable improvements to wellbeing . by the same token , entire societies can try to advance their happiness . how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness into national statistics , and more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to promote citizen wellbeing .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s madrid civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . all of this raises a key question : does the u.s. even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the result has been to turn its foreign policy into less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to a misunderstanding – the outcome certainly does not . a new world order gave way to an order-less world in which reliability and predictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle engagement . israel , however , is a tiny fraction of this comprehensive pattern .
the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge in global imbalances and the us economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously from around 2004 onwards . it is also hard not to trace back to the 1980 ’s on the origins of the credit boom and the proliferation of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . thatcher herself was no enthusiast for credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in the credit card . ” the financial services act of 1986 imposed the end of the pure self-regulation regime . financial interests opposed it vigorously at the time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , if only they were able to pretend that a thick wedge would ultimately become .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable manipulation of the gulf crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu might conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners might welcome an israeli strike , and even seek to provoke it , as a means of rallying the iranian population further from them . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free ” system , built on an incentive system that includes economic and technical support for the countries that join , along with security guarantees from the united nations security council , and permanent members of the united nations security council . the zone should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to stay out of the front , and , once again , backed by the security council ’s permanent members , impose military-sanctions on those that attempt to develop wmds . a unilateral military strike in this manner would carry potentially dire consequences .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war there . just recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to take his place , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni rebels , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood time will flow again . united nations reports of atrocity crimes , with internet images of assaults on civilians , and accounts of suffering refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done – and by whom ?
for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s arab countries to stay focused on governance and capacity-building issues , human rights , and to establish economies responsive to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . now that a raucous regional situation is joining to raucous american election season ( where no matter who is excluded from the political arena ) , the task for assembling these component will be all the more difficult . new arab leaders will fight mightily with a rising public ’s expectations , and their willingness to ride behind the peace process will take a backseat to this struggle . it is far too soon to evaluate the historic effect of the arab spring , but , if one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have very little , if any , than
london – vulnerable communities are facing the tipping point for climate action – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these figures are significantly higher when informal smes are included . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , this could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . helping the most vulnerable communities will become more resilient to the impact of climate change , with financial institutions around it . when the sme builds its own climate resilience , it can have cascading effects within the community .
agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also create gas . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending from $ 14 billion to $ 30 billion to reduce global methane would generate benefits , from cutting a warming reduction – between 1.4 and three times higher – than it would be . and because methane is a much shorter-lived gas than co2 , we could prevent some of the worst of the short-term warming through mitigation . we could also place a greater focus on reducing the black carbon , which we considered responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of the arctic melt . cutting methane is indeed potentially cheaper than cutting carbon .
it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that did so for several centuries . nowadays , it is not american military power that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of a “ american dream . ” it has not only had to live with the realities of american power ; it must also reflect the american ideal . china ’s challenge , however , may lie more than ever . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more of their own , adopting a symbol resembling a statue of liberty .
but , collectively , eu member states , even without the united kingdom , would constitute a power of a similar magnitude . a stronger , more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with america and china on most domains – including through “ weaponizing europe ’s economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . yet europe ’s leaders tempted by the prospect of a g3 world will have to address two related fears . first , it remains unclear how the eu will achieve the needed level of integration when most serious decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among the member states . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world a reality .
after all , this is how the us administration handled canada and mexico . now , trump has exempted the two countries from the tariffs , but now expects concessions from the us on his administration ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . while the us has , on average , fewer tariff protections than europe , the difference is minor ( europe ’s unweighted tariff duty averages 5.2 % versus 3.5 % for the us . regulatory divergences pose a far more significant us-european non-tariff trade obstacle than tariffs . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger safety rules in specific sectors .
how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i am willing to pay their diagnostic test fee that might be just fair enough , but also block any other firm that might offer me a similar test unless such firms are willing to pay it a license fee ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental component of an individual ’s own genetic identity should not be enforceable . do n’t i somehow believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling . we need not believe in genetic determinism in order to find that argument compelling .
there was also opposition from some feminist organizations , which accuse an amnesty for protecting “ the rights of the pimps and johns ” rights . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . humans are no exception in this respect , and of this respect . instead , they argued , “ we ” should “ end the demand for paid sex ” – but without explain how this should happen . for that reason , the global alliance ’s secretariat against female traffic applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization .
since the great recession , the growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , largely owing to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural shifts are also having a role to play . propelled by rising demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets have won an increasing share of soaring trade in goods ; last year , they accounted for more than half of global trading flows . with the us and the eurozone strengthening their supply chains , many companies are streamlining and shoring up their supply chains . for a wide range of goods , automation means that manufacturing locations and outsourcing decisions no longer depend on labor costs .
nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support in america for maintaining us military bases in afghanistan , as a means of projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talking about the withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether the security situation warrants it or not . according to rice , anything less than the residual 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan , a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . what she presumably does not recognize is that america ’s worsening ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . america evidently believes that a continued military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests .
such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused even to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , much as though this makes them legally non-binding . indeed , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy by refusing to sign on to the summit ’s official record , just as if this will render the outcome inconsequential for poland . the polish government has undeniably paralyzed the courts , undermining the rule of law in poland . in a sign of what must come next , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told poland ’s tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu pursued “ a policy of double standard and related deceptions . ” according to waszczykowski , poland not only must drastically reduce [ its own ] level of trust in the eu ; it must also start to pursue a negative policy , with the eu blocking other initiatives , or playing a very aggressive game .
we tap that solar power in multiple fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar stoves , solar-thermal electricity , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but the possibilities for greatly increased use of inexpensive , universally available , and environmentally friendly solar power are enormous . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and safe and reliable nuclear power . already , solar radiation equals roughly 10,000 times our current use of energy . vital energy technologies will include the conversion of coal for liquids ( like gasoline ) , the use of the tar sands and the oil-shale fuel , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . this will require massive investment in new technology and resources , rather than a “ fight for the finish ” over middle east oil .
in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of widespread poverty and starvation . there was brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru jackets and the maoist revolution , but it was relatively short-lived . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you traveled by the portrayals of chairman mao , you ai make it , with anyone anyhow . ” by the turn of the century , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese wealthy , but also enhanced the country ’s soft power . asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success .
likewise , to lay the foundations for the future of economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , rather than curtail funding for important research programs like the horizon 2020 . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation links . but , with austerity coming under fire , and eu countries have looked to spur more spending , the council should also consider the budget its shape , to ensure that the mff does not hinder future growth and investment . for example , the proposed eu budget precisely protects intra-continental infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband networks into rural areas , and the growth of transport and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value to itself by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby achieve economies of scale and avoiding a duplication of national expenditure .
in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose peoples are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the un ’s human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . with the proliferation of regional threats , china responded by canceling a danish trade mission . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . the french were then rewarded with a mixture of lucrative treaties in china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be even more muted .
and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage ( uhc ) and ensuring everyone ’s right to health . in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is an important driver of health outcomes . the global agenda in this area determines the norms and norms shaping how public and private actors promote health , prevent disease , and administer care . it encompasses research initiatives and world public goods , such as vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises periodically , or has access to nutritious food .
still , merely the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . for example , studies of american courts with multiple court justices have shown that the male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench and substantially more willing , when one woman adds up . in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , they have heard clearly only when the critical mass of these is present in any institution . consider , for example , a female woman ’s perspective on conflict . “ each of us , ” a ” noted sandra day o’connor , a former female head of the american high court , who has been renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ feminine ” justice , brings to our jobs , whatever that is , our lifetime of considerable experience and our values .
the philosopher michael walzer is putting it well : “ one is easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , nevertheless , that this gets one ’s hands dirty in that way is “ often the right thing to do . ” but to decide how to act for a greater good does not absolve us from their moral culpability . ultimately , an authoritarian leader ’s advisers can not escape the dilemma . us hands become dirty when the us helps a terrorist or a dictator .
but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis expelled , because they were seen as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . embittered and unemployed young yemeni men often became subject to another saudi policy gone awry , its propagation of the sunni wahhabi form of islam . yemen , however , also is engaged in its own destructive policies . with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen due to saudi financial support , it is small wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . since then , yemeni labor has been banned from saudi arabia .
such fundamental studies have now led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . for some patients with some cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling those on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with unperceptable traces of our disease . still , the immunotherapy revolution is still in its infancy . independently , honjo and its colleagues identified another protein that carries a similar function . nevertheless , much remains to be learned .
but it has followed this approach on a macro level and for problems elsewhere in the economy without a deeper examination of its own . the only possible way to evolve is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now to silicon valley – owing in large part to its own behavior – faces a lot of them . unless and until this changes , it will overtake the us . the good news is that , if any place has proven able to innovate , it is silicon valley ; it is a problem of the future . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their skill for innovation – and their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves .
for starters , we have trained farmers how to improve their soils by expanding legume crops , residues humans that could be used as goat fodder . here , too , there is a chance that the innovation platform helps . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market is helping to create a positive feedback loop . if farmers are confident that their goats will not be stolen and could be sold at decent prices , then they are better able to make the investments they need to improve their own production system . recognizing the benefits of these practices , farmers have begun increasing crop density , applying manure , and rotating crops , thereby increasing yields and creating more fodder for healthier goats .
but for lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove only as wrenching . with fears of increased inequality already widening , governments will need to rethink policies for providing incomes and job-transition support to displaced workers . in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for nearly 50 years before it began to kick in again . that may already have been an extreme situation . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep the imperatives of education .
less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations manufactured by kagame and the pan-african panel of experts that it appointed through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other relevant stakeholders . this has largely been a matter of thinking , not means . fortunately , mindsets are now starting to make a shift , yet again . at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that in spite of the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failing to implement many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , rwandan president paul kagame tasked with leading a process in which all have been deeply involved .
both countries have floating exchange rates , meaning that their central banks are not inclined to intervene in the currency market by buying and selling reserves . now suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond and uses the dollar ’s dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia . at best , market participants will applaud the decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent , as brazil ’s net debt position will not have changed . more fundamentally , why are we to think of reserves in different ways than when we are thinking of other assets on national balance sheets ? suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s ’s ’s star central banker , issues a bond in new york , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge a country ’s international reserves .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested in an extensive national digital plan , which is expected to generate 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 trillion to gdp over the next decade . the consequences are already beginning to show : according to the bloomberg innovation index , an american is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having fallen two spots in 2015 . despite having driven the internet race in the 1990s , america is now the only major advanced economy without a clean digitization plan . while still others are embracing robust digital strategies , the us is falling behind .
beyond funding constraints , women are facing high social and cultural barriers to political participation . specifically , larger care responsibilities , bolstered by public perceptions of a “ woman ’s role , ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this challenge . in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % complement to the state budget . similarly , in iran , the country ’s political parties lose 50 % of their state funding if their candidate pool covers less than 30 % of either gender .
furthermore , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek a deal . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions had done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . iran , by all accounts , is a company profoundly divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , as well as those for whom iran ’s international standing better serves via its nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions being imposed on iran would appear to support the latter , rather than the former . that might well be true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , which was genuinely accountable to the people ’s will .
as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require the involvement of policymakers and the private sector . the bec ’s argument – that a “ new model ” will be a public-private partnership between governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a ready spotlight on the relationship . one hopes that the paris agreement will change that way . for the long run , patient finance must also be made available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . for we still do not know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be assigned to a wide range of choices .
but these challenges will not be tackled , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget , representing close to 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and the young . moreover , we plan to provide up to 90 % funding for a new program to improve the quality of senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been making a commitment to give its children – particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – high-quality schooling . even so , senegal is fighting every opportunity to strengthen its education system .
the goal must be to foster european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . advances in the defense industry lead to important positive externalities , for example , civil-military synergies and investment in research and development , which are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make progress without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunities for all of europe ’s supplier . as member states advance this path , spooked by technological and operational excellence and innovative , they will find avenues to eliminate wasteful spending and optimize resource use . a critical component in the coordination and orderly functioning of europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
a study by the australian marine institute has found that the palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . it should not be hard to spur countries to take actions to protect their shark populations , given that a shark ’s overall economic value plummets when it dies . for example , china has banned high-soup shark-fin soup , a traditional delicacy at official government dinners and functions – a move that contributed to the 30 % shark-fin sales drop from last december through april . a single reef shark that replaces major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; the same shark would make it worth roughly $ 108 dead . in the southern city of guangzhou , the centers for china ’s shark-fin trade , vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years .
tudjman 's own excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power in exchange for his struggle against serbian aggression . the truth is that he used a negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style plunder state properties by his coterie of loyalists . to accomplish this with a little fuss , he muzzled the press and the electronic media . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced labor transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and the division of territory among one another . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , tudjman needed to concentrate power for a dictator with milosevic .
under the basic law , the election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . its parliamentarians are chosen by a mere 7 % of hong kong ’s entire electorate , and its voting procedures seek to block any candidates ’ nomination of democratic sympathies . hong kong ’s government could convene changes to enhance the openness and fairness of which a chief executive is chosen , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . as of 1997 , 55-61 % of voters cast their ballots for democratic candidates in legislative council ballot in the local elections . the existing proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any candidate that it dislikes , prompting criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ you can vote for anyone we elect .
january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader for the first time since the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted the elections . but in gaza strip local elections soon afterward , with the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of the ten municipal councils . in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that a first free election would be their last because the islamists win and establish theocratic regimes . reformers insist that the overwhelming majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern . that case is not yet a proven solution .
increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other industries , such as by lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufactures . this , in turn , is a global segment , which meeting its growing global needs . increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other industries , such as by lowering procurement costs and deploying lean lean principles in manufactures . a shakeout in the clean-tech sector has been hard ; but it has also been typical of emerging tech startups , by weeding out the weaker players , making the sector more robust . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities to improve . there is little room to doubt that a clean tech industry can expect many sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom that enveloped the world in 2008 led many to ask whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . more broadly , the top 1 % of the population prospered . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has soared . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and at least in the u.s. , the incomes of the poor and the middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ;
their primary targets include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and core performance indicators ; tracking , preparation , and disclose comparative data that measure their economic and esg performance ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices into company business strategies and models . given the magnitude of the task at hand , it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with competent standard-setters , regulators , and professional agencies . global awareness of this topic has been increasing . most recently , mark carney , governor of the bank of england and the chairman of the g20 financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg , has issued statements related to climate data . america ’s securities and exchange commission , for one , is discussing these issues as it analyzes options for responding to investor and business needs concerning esg .
earlier this month ’s g-20 summit , and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro , are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to raise productivity , while establishing more sustainable patterns of production . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis . the pursuit of thriving , inclusive economies must be anchored in their efforts to address climate change and to deliver universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , along with integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be achieved without the political will .
new york – the global financial markets of 2008 experienced its worst financial crisis since the great depression of the 1930s . global stock markets crashed by more than 50 percent ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch appeared ; and many emerging-market economies were teetering into the international monetary fund for help . major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought off on the cheap or survived only after major bailouts . so what lies ahead for the imf in 2009 ? is the worst behind the us or the ahead ?
add to that the other psychological bias neuroscientists are debating : because our species have evolved to fend off risk , we tend to feel even more susceptible to bad news . we have react more acutely to images of starving infants as a way of reporting better nutrition levels in africa . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to validate the old adage : if it bleeds , it leads . the good news is not news ; media executives often make a mutter . and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible photos much longer .
insightful bloggers are attracting considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that the internet has propelled to china ’s political landscape . china ’s government has apparently started to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of enabling some space for free speech . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information , as well as the right to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” is in the making .
new york – countries often devote public funds to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which it has just opened in shanghai , is truly scarce . the annual import expo , a component of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of large commands from chinese firms , including the state-owned companies with which expo government addresses expo ’s success . if expo succeeds in raising its imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case , either .
it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . language gives access to people ’s culture and culture in its history . its history tells us just how it sees itself , as well as others . london – the late historian norman stone , who died in june – always insisted that history students learn foreign languages . knowledge of languages should thus be an indispensable component of the historian ’s engineering devices .
a nagging question is this : will next january elections really be held ? prime minister salam allawi assures the world that there will be , and president bush echoes his words . while that scenario is simple , reality is not . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about the bombings and hostage taking and the take of “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the probability that the iraq election will be held this coming january must be less than 50 % , and we can be certain that these will not take free and fair europe-wide elections .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role now increasingly at center stage . every new epithets in putin ’s investigation of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign are bringing the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process to sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation to force facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publish what they are buying online advertising , thereby closing the loophole that russia exploited in elections . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises of a better corporate citizens will resolve only the most publicized problem . the tougher challenge will be reinforcing institutions that are vitally important for the functioning of democracy by explicitly , civics training , and local journalism .
and they will not recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . yet , when the ends are clear , politicians are often clueless about the means . in america ’s presidential campaign , trade protection is fashionable once again . but , while import restrictions may alleviate the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not prevent companies to relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest . nor will they protect workers from technological change at the same time .
when it comes to producing terrorist and undocumented immigrants , two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators are having an inglorious track records . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder to this , and western governments are not calling for a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and allowing refugees to re-restart . a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons could end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credits and political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship might be enough for libyans , a majority of whom have never truly benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . getting “ stuck in transition ” is the third potential scenario , with libya remaining in a unitary mediterranean zone ” neither a fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but a semi-free alternative .
but , of course , if they were engaged in a case against a muslims that had to be handled in an islamic court . second , the court ’s staff had been entirely muslim , which meant that testimony was viewed exclusively by a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims might have appealed to anyone , christians and jews could testify against only against another buddhist . when a muslim and moslems faced one another in a trial , the muslim enjoyed significant advantages . first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to provide the benefit of any doubt on a fellow muslims .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona . some argue that the true point is the risk of attack and the destruction that might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis based on a subjective sense of risk . but there can be no way out of making an objective assessment of fear , and however plausible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc on the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the better way to make any sense of “ self-defense ” is to invoke two principles that underlie legal assertions of justification in both domestic and international law .
most economies are becoming significantly less equitable , with widening gaps between the rich and the poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions suffering the most at risk of outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at the rio +20 summit last year to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate preparation for these goals by the un year 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire that year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late september for this purpose .
from lahore to lagos , mexico city , to mumbai , governments look on their own populations as pools of talent waiting that they can be tapped . it is time for their diplomats to do the same . they should encourage and spur job creators and problem-solving solvers , and transform development assistance through investment . an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard , who can visualize and generate thriving global demand for a product or service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara , who is an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . today starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide – some 50,000 more than facebook , google , amazon , and apple combined .
political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . while both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced the kind of internal liberalization that allowed relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside of communist control , slovakia , after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . although such politicians often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' their real-world policies , such as that of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , have been consistently demagogic populist or authoritarian . when the post-communist communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland 's rightist communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into credible democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . true , the political situation in any central european country is also influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition .
whereas “ a rainy day ” funds that are accumulating in boom years are used to cope with temporary revenue shortfalls , states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ general obligation ” borrowing is confined to capital projects like highways and schools . the eu ’s maastricht treaty has specifically reimposed reserves on member countries , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other eu countries ’ people in ways that the american people are prepared to do among people in various states . a third major difference is the claim that all of america ’s states are obliged by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . even a state like california – which considers many a poster child for fiscal profligacy – now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and a general obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . these limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication that american states can not create the money to fill fiscal gaps .
i have no doubt that , sometime this century , one will be able to purchase bodily professors , maybe with holographic images – just as easily as one might buy today ’s pocket kasparov computer . so , let us return to india and china any more than china , so we can begin now . i certainly do not feel safe about this type of economics professor ! so let us return to india and china anyway . globalization has returned at speed through much of the past century , and at a particularly accelerated pace during its previous two decades . yet a huge body of evidence suggests that the pace of technological change has been a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than does trade .
specialization within each country enables people to obtain more of what they want , which , particularly at higher incomes levels , includes cleaner air and water . when trade brings down costs , it can be good for environmental goods just as it benefits other goods . for example , some empirical cross-country data studies find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators like the local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . so , is trade globalization on balance , better or worse ? provided that countries have effective national-level governance institutions , free trade , and growth give them the means to clear their air .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term kremlinology ” has referred to efforts to understand what happened at the soviet union ’s commanding heights , indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . great significance has been read into who has signed an official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when reviewing military parades . all of this has been grammar-school stuff , compared to the effort to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . kremlinologists have monitored ( in whatever form possible ) who was up and who was down among a core soviet leadership . consider what happened on december 17 .
in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over ” reports ” for a handful of systemically important economies , to be spearheaded at the margins of its countries ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or the g-20 ’s peer reviews of the recent past . they surely have a right to defend , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent reserve accumulation ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies geared focused on countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . even if massive spillovers are obvious , it is hard to see how this exercise would resolve the fundamental problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so what should latin american economies do ?
east asian countries followed that advice , and for a good reason : they saw the consequences of a shortage of reserves . to let china let its currency float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns but were powerless to resist . for their part , the imf had the money it needed to do so . countries went so far as to warn : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because they are key frontline defense .
half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with an eighth of legalization . welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton ; and obamacare relies on the massachusetts health-care system enacted under republican state governor mitt romney . more recently , some us states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a carbon price , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan . three states have implemented laws that offer a paid family leave , with a fourth on track . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy policies – from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – 33 states are cutting carbon-dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it – the new york times , new york , ” ” ” ” ” frank sinatra sang of a city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious figures , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this is not a hard phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals , are rife with opportunities . but the impact that big cities have run deeper than economic or even cultural might ; indeed , cities may fundamentally alter people ’s lives , and even those of themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey the west , along with the researchers ’ team , has discovered that a few socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increase with local populations ’ size . in other words , the larger cities , the higher the average wage , productivity levels , the number of patents per person , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv .
at a time when american nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the bush administration ’s historic deal – were held back by america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier liability when accident strikes , some regard india ’s spurning of us planes as a gratuitous rejection of the opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too . against this , the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new us ally , and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supplies , training and operations that have so far developed the world does not . as if all of this were inadequate to decide against america , the clincher might well have been the indian government ’s eagerness to avoid any more procurement controversy at a time when allegations of corruption beset it from all sides . a decision brought on by technical grounds , to many of them , would have been easier to defend than one based on political considerations . ( the eventual winner of the offer is likely to force an eventual enter into a joint-manufacturing arrangement with india that american companies were not equipped . )
as a result , large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for a fiscal bailouts should that supervisory and regulation fail ) . in the case of demanding state rescues , european competitive rules are calling for divestment and downsizing them . even stronger banks are being squeezed by their capital buffers to increase their capital buffers . in most cases , this means continuing to rein in lending , exacerbating the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which , for a time in march 2009 , are pruned according to the eu ’s directorate general for competition .
north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out an account of its “ enveloping bound on american elements of guam . ” trump then shot back that america ’s conventional military is “ locked and loaded . ” and , indeed , as this exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america has reportedly been preparing revised military options for a striking north korea . more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has reached out to the capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , and may have as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken .
two conclusions can and should be drawn from all this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our individual success to others , given the public goods that society provides . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that benefited the most from the solidarity of the rest , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . this calls for more modesty and restraint in the determination of highest salaries , not for moral reasons but for the sustainability of the system . but do not hold your breath for waiting to agree with reality .
they understood that unemployment would rise if the country ’s monetary policy was set by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on disinflation ( as well as that lacking sufficient attention to financial stability ) . after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the types of policies that have done so much to heighten inequality in so many advanced countries , and that are so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth . the economy would have suffered because the intra-european economic model rerested on the power relations that had disadvantaged workers so deeply . and , confident enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized those relationships , is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders wish to see the end of greek prime minister alexis tsipras ’s center-left leftist government . when sweden ’s ’s ’s ’s did it , swedes said no .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two important predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but his rejection of pluralism , and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his effort to centralize power in the hands of the brethren and the eu himself beyond a review of egypt ’s judiciary , has proven his undoing . durham – this year , islamist politics has faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but it is too soon to write off political islam as a capable participant , even a leadership force , in a pluralist democracy . just in the wake of the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi ’s ouster , millions of egyptians took to the street , triggering the military coup that ousted him .
on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in the journal science on the results of research that for the first time , isolated human embryonic stem-cell lines specifically tailored for match the dna with male and female patients of different ages . found in pairing of research , both breakthroughs represent a stunning advance in stem cell research . the following day , british scientists at newcastle university announced that they were successful at creating a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . embryonic stem cells are “ pluripotent , ” which means they have the potential to develop into any number of human tissue . this carries great promise , especially for sufferers of spinal injuries and diseases .
this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay , and eliminating exemptions from permits by firms or industries . such actions would not only foster fiscal sustainability , by reducing the threshold beyond which firms must total 2 % of gdp ; they would also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . finally , in the medium to long term , china can lower government spending by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the largest global firms have employed new technologies to reduce worker layers , from their top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and boosting efficiency . china ’s cabinet , on the other hand , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure – starting with the central government , and moved down via provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the peoples ’ founding 70 years ago .
nuclear deterrence – the threat of killing hundreds of thousands or millions of people is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars while making a people more civilized and prudent . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened in the wake of russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would be unthinkable . indeed , the risks to a nuclear-armed world – or only a minimal number – are tremendous .
as the tragedy has unfolded , yet scientists have gained greater understanding of the disease . an infected individual is delivered by the prion gene , in which she resides in a state of innocuous . an infectious prion then hijacks of the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it in the willing executioner of prion ’s replication . prions appear to defy all the conventional wisdom , survive pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration , at 340 ºc for four hours , with treatments that are routinely and reliably used to deactivate all known viruses and bacteria . moreover , the prions do not lack one ’s own genes .
daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because it controverts the fundraising demands to get him out . the same thing , they fear , will happen again in europe . but american experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra musical directors to participate in the fundraising need not be bad for a artistic side of the job . performing arts advocates point out in europe where , among other things , the music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities , and engage local communities on the orchestras behalf . some conductors , rather than wanting to carry the tin cup as they make their batons , have refused important posts in the us for this reason : feeling that it would interfere with their art .
at the same time , the council is more likely to accept the possibility of mounting a punitive airstrike program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force targets . the council could also announce that any fresh aggression , or any use , threat , or transfer of wmd , would trigger saddam ’s removal and his pursuit as an international criminal like slobodan milosevic . this would hurt and weaken saddam , and establish a unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . it would be odd to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to gain its approval . we should not forswear this option , but we ought to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legally critical – might never foster an invasion .
this time , dr. ahmed ahmed , the iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . some of the inspectors that he knew well , having dined with them on collegial terms during their visits to vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly has been incomprehensible to his friends on a inspection team . soon after , the un 's un inspectors returned to a tarmiya . this time , they knew precisely what the colossal magnets were for : to produce weapons-grade nuclear materials .
the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . china , after all , is now one of the most unequal countries in the world . but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three key myths about its impact on economic growth . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply , and then decline , in an inverted “ “ “ u ” pattern or bell ” as countries underwent economic development . given the speed of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes this claim more powerfully than any other .
pakistan held free and fair elections in both the 2002 and 2007 elections , and it is preparing to hold its next in late 2012 , or in early 2013 . pakistan has held free and fair elections for the second time in 2002 and 2007 , and it is preparing to hold its next term in late 2012 , or in early 2013 . thus , pakistan has gone one step toward developing a rule-based political system . of course , a democracy is invariably meant to mean more than periodically holding out free and fair elections . it also needs to develop a robust rule of law , give people enforceable property rights , and give citizens the institutional means to settle their disputes .
by contrast , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalization of claims for a society-wide dialogue . that 20 years after this epochal event the iron curtain remains around cuba makes this anniversary poignant . to be sure , the tourists who crowd cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s beaches are oblivious to this iron curtain . but , regardless of that ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing political prisoners and using every international institution to put pressure on the cuban government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights . earlier this year , the peoples of europe are marking the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain that once divided europe in two .
some have said that the uprising in burma is over . however , we believe that the protests represent just the beginning of the end of the end of military rule in our country . brigadier general kyaw hsan , a deputy chair of the military , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that the marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ” that is what the junta wants now seems to be thinking . nevertheless , we are genuine , with thousands of us , from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing , demonstrating for peace .
but plato would most likely have marveled at the world ’s moral progress . after all , it believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant on the assumption of the responsibility of a moral reformer . still , though morality was always at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we nowadays take for granted had never occurred to him . for example , although plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he , like each other , condoned a enslavement of barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) . today , on the other hand , even an emphatically non-philosophical individual – unlike , say , plato ’s “ “ “ media escort ” – might easily explain why slavery is wrong : a person is a person .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged as a result of the conflict , particularly in hubs of violence . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterizes rural colombia have gave the farc a number of seats , a conflict that is concentrated in such areas . ( dismantling narco-trafficking activities in which the farc have been involved may also be seen as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . ) this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize rural colombia have gave the farc access to the farc precisely , and the conflict has been concentrated in such areas . such an effort must be underpinned by progress in another area : rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed in the peace deal .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , is making headlines worldwide . across 7.5 million people of the age of 15-24 are “ “ “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . roughly 5.5 million europeans under age of 25 are unemployed ; today , they are out of work . the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , ireland , italy , bulgaria , cyprus , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and slovakia , surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of jobseekers under 25 have been out of work for more than 12 months , and their chances of finding a job remain low .
yet america ’s supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . the us trade negotiators are not even debating this double standard . foreign manufacturers are blamed for `` unfair '' competition much more easily than domestic manufacturers . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce a `` competitive advantage '' within trade negotiations will only make life more difficult . indeed , if norms of domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the us would be guilty of dumping .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . for emerging economies , this would mean being cured by dollarization merely to catch an even worse case for libraization . if it does , then libra may have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of slow growth and greater financial instability . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to keep it cancer . but libra ’s advantages seem as slippery as its pisces .
the added costs were not all that large ( about $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france have already been among the top in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gdp , including existing taxes ) . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with the united kingdom ’s “ yellow vest ” protests in france last month . there is no reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the precise dynamics depend on a variety of factors . for example , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or a no-growth environment where a subset ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or declining . the immediate cause of the protests was a new fuel tax .
from alexander the great into stalin 's vicious , variants of that strategy have since been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we now see this strategy at work as president vladimir putin stealthily seeking to restore kremlin supremacy over the lands treated as “ lost ” after the ussr imploded in 1991 . in the run-up to the just-concluded mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever ukraine ’s people choose . in doing so overplays his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , by contrast , putin has made clear to the world his neo-imperialist designs . to divide the people to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout a recorded history .
if those twin deficits run at a trend rate exceeding 3 % of gdp per annum , net u.s. debt to the rest of the world , currently at 40 % of gdp , will double in less than 24 years . skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . what it does not acknowledge is that the u.s. is also forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving deficit . in any case , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . america has steadfastly ran both its fiscal deficit , with total spending ( of which defense totaling 14.8 % in 2017 ) vastly surpassing its income – as well as its current-account deficit .
consider , for example , how recent innovations are threatening the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ development in recent decades . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” ” robots , and other non-human tools , companies could shift their manufacturing sites closer to their final markets . by exploiting abundant , low-cost labor , developing countries managed to increase their share of global manufacturing activities , create more employment , attracting investment , and , in some cases , restarting the broader industrialization process . but , for firms that took advantage of opportunities to cut costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , there was always a trade-off : offshore manufacturing meant limited capacity to respond quickly to changes in consumer demand . now , the tech sector may offer another option .
for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has her spouse , who is diehard manchester united fan . couches are stained by beer and kicked as swindlers waver his favorite teams . she has changed her furniture , at least twice since she marry four years ago . every season , she breaks at least one additional piece of furniture , when his team loses . even wives of men who watch play games at home have other issues to cope with .
increasingly , such protagonists have become a focus of academic attention , of cultural criticism , and of the popular culture itself . the idea that a murderous monster might symbolize a protester or outcast , and therefore deserves sympathy , originated with the french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding of homicidal monsters like another . the idea that a murderous monster could symbolize a protester or outcast , and therefore deserves sympathy , originated with the french minority philosophers gilles delineuze and pierre-félix guattari . increasingly , protagonists have become a focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by the growing desire to stamp out “ impasses of impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . in march , al gore ’s ’s science advisor and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to tackling global warming , the “ democratic process ” is n’t working . though science showed that co2 from fossil fuels heats the planet , politicians were reluctant to follow through on their advice and to abandon the construction of coal-fired power plants . but closing down discussion simply means the disappearance of reason from public policy . hansen argues that , “ the first action that people should take is to usher in the democratic process .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election had pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the primary reason for raising female mps has been the introduction of a quota system whereby south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government financing to parties meeting the quota , reducing the amount for parties that do not . the increase in female mps has led not only to increased members of the female cabinet , but also to a wide range of policies and institutional improvements geared toward women . and , though south korea slipped to its 80th place in the ipu rankings , the fall reflects the subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other african countries .
equality should occur before a law , combined with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , and for the purposes for which it is conferred , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of legislation ensuring that government does not exceed the boundaries of its authority . courts and other official adjudicative bodies should provide a fair process . for bingham , a law would have to be accessible and – insofar as it can – – intelligible , clarity , and predictable . everyone would be governed by a law insulated from those in power , and resolving legal disputes without prohibitive cost or inordinate delay .
it is the extreme right that has benefited most from centrists ’ failure . in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has been revitalized under marine le pen . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’s freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without her support , a far-right , liberal government would collapse . nor is the backlash confined to the eurozone ’s core members , and are it different . in finland , a heresy of the true common party capitalized on the resentment around the eurozone “ bailouts ” to finish a close third in april of the general election .
the fourth factor , obviously , is german business interests . german firms are making large amounts of cash in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , the slovakia – which together account for germany ’s largest trade partner . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports . in fact , the eu is paying to turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . but , here , the hungarian tail is wagging the german dog .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its major trade partners in the eu , which the eu has decided to incorporate under its co2 emission-control scheme all flights to and from its own territory , including transcontinental flights . in response , china and the united states are outraged . ceos of airbus aircraft manufacturer , and major european airlines have urged european leaders to take action . with the support of american companies ’ products , chinese airlines have delayed orders to buy european aircraft in the process . and airlines will need to obtain their flights permits for their flights of ’ ’ co2 emissions .
when we in government looked closely at the risks in london as a financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage the us . but the us was never in any doubt that being out of europe altogether was an entirely different matter . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore centers in the vicinity of europe , free from european responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunities . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated ; but every deal must be negotiated individually . and , to a record close , norway is an important net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiations , despite not being a member .
it also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries and communicable , maternal , newborns , and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . estimates of the local disease burden will be vital to fight afflictions like ebola , checking a rising toll of non-communicable diseases across middle-income countries , and meeting sustainable development goals related to maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could – and should – do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health , if it included more in-depth data breakdowns . to help decision-makers make better use of their datasets , a institute for health metrics and evaluation , which i head , is creating groundbreaking geospatial charts of resolution disease burdens . policymakers are held accountable , first and foremost , with their constituents whose unique needs they must meet .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain will have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices will have to rise by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to exit the common currency , the road back toward competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries as a rump euro would undergo a devaluation ; but the crisis-depressed countries ’ fundamental problem remains as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its own prices by 22-24 % relative to the eurozone ’s new average . from this perspective , the crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a competitive monetary union . the only way to avoid it would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has shut down everyday activities in certain coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is just as fair to condemn these communities to long-term dependence on fishing . one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capability would be to create the maritime equivalent of a us territorial army , a training selected fisherfolk in how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . such training , working with students ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent sea , would make for a highly efficient buffer zone , to be deployed when disaster strikes . another issue that risks being overlooked by targeting urgent , immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs .
ramallah – the un should stop pressing for the resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best path to peace by far – a paradox , reflecting the colossal gap between the peace process and the achievement of genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not an invitation to arms or an appeal to the violent uprising . peace among the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be accomplished through negotiations . but if one party has a greater interest in a process than the need for a peace deal , something must be wrong .
berlin : the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as the project of peace , the defense of the west ’s fundamental human values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance to transcend the continent ’s historic divisions , now requires a redefinition of the european project . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic might . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) resulted from a rather poor compromise . statements by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency in early july 2007 , are unambiguous : the period of reflection , approved by the european commission in 2005 , had come to an end .
but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . the most recent fad is to officials to sue newspapers for libel , demanding more than $ 1 million . after the government seized upon its influence over a independent televised network of television networks , ntv , and tv6 , russia ’s media became vastly duller . part of the explanation for this has increased official control , part is declining public interest , and part is that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less pressing . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new shops and its buildings .
one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the proportion of the population doing productive work at high-value jobs . true , the united states is not denmark , we are not . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so successful , and what americans can learn from them . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries provide their working-age men , which pays a decent enough wage , to sustain their healthy and happy lives . according to the oecd country rankings by the job-poor group , the top seven countries worldwide enjoy developing-country economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now is a columnist timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s rising inequality crisis and what we could possibly do about it , and milton and rose director friedman ’s classical free choice : a personal declaration . their case for small-government libertarianism has rested heavily on those claims , and has now been largely crumbled , because the world , it has turned out , disagreed with them about how it operates . pon– on my desk right now is a columnist timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s mounting inequality crisis and what we can do about it , and milton and rose director friedman ’s classical free-selection approach : a personal declaration . considering them together , my overwhelming notion is that a friedmans would seek their task for justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism a much harder today than they did in 1979 . back then , a friedmans made three powerful factual assertions about how the world operates – claims that seemed true or perhaps true , or at least arguably , true at the time , but that now seems pretty obvious to be false .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , co-chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa is losing more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . now , the g20 should follow on that commitment , and set a clear timeframe for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending from the 2017 onward and a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to combating tax evasion and unraveling an murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . g20 members should step up tax disclosure requirements , prevent the emergence of shell companies , intensify efforts to fight money-laundering efforts , and establish corporate ownership registries . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined investor-avoidance measures , such as base erosion and profit-shifting .
though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention to carry out a cross-border environmental impact assessment ( not to mention missing an opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continuing the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analysis is expected to take place . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd to demand that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear-power plants until a cross-border assessment is taken place . the snriu makes this critical choice without key information about the health and environmental risks that the snriu poses to ukraine and its neighbors are also being decided . three of ukraine ’s ’s ’s nuclear forces currently are operating beyond their design lifetime , with nine-year-old others set to reach the point of their intended lifetime within the next five years . the snriu will make this critical choice without key intelligence on the health and environmental risks that the snriu poses to ukraine and its neighbors .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model of urban food production . and there has been 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , signed on to the un climate programme , a five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and foster climate-related financial dislocations . as a result , global green-bond issuance might reach some $ 300 trillion this year . and oslo , for its part , has forged a un climate budget aimed at directing financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 firms with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments under the us meaning business coalition .
already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . to succeed in restoring a strong growth path , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights abuses . as proponents of asian values have argued , all kinds of human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – are needed . but this was no recipe for a restoration of stability and growth . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights would confront a backlash .
major uncertainties in life – a destination that of one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morals – nudges one toward morals . by contrast , a virtuous chinese who saves a huge share of their incomes has been castigated by western economists for their failure to understand that their duty toward humanity has been to spend . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a morality issue , hedging against risk is a purely technical question . keynesian thinking in the transition to a debt-fueled economy has been the redefinition of uncertainty as a risk . this has been the ultimate achievement of mathematical economics .
having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right brexit party , bersani will depend on the senators ’ willingness to support particular actions . but this approach is proving to be inefficient and unstable , and it is the case where the country is still growing . as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s ’s general election last may , when a similar inability to produce a parliamentary majority enforced by another election the following month . italy and greece have plenty in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . a crisis in cyprus – which is threatening the country ’s banking system to collapse and forcing cyprus from the eurozone – could make the situation even harder for governance .
for example , in the 1980s , america entered into such agreements with a foreign automotive , a microchip , steel , a lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . but , just a couple of years ago , an american auto industry pressed into a requirement trade deal that would grant it a minimal market share of america ’s exports to south korea . some of the preconditions that were imposed subsequently have been shelved by the world trade organization . trump is likely to scuttle these tools further . if trump wants to keep production from sliding overseas and encourage investment from abroad , us firms might soon see pushed to agree – voluntarily ” on outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
the paris accord does not victimize the us ; on the contrary , the u.s. has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order . according to figures from the world resources institute ( wu ) , the u.s. accounted for the astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . and us per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country , by far . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been a few times the world average , that owes the world 's climate justice , not the other way around . america ’s population today amounts to just 4.4 % of the world 's population .
for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( indeed , the economy grew at almost 10 % ) , when the stock market lost about half of its value between 2001 and 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovers ( only to fall again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until the last year , when it became the world ’s best performing performing , rising by more than 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern persists : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market re-opened on the monday that followed its largest two-day surge since 2008 . that rise preceded the loss of nearly one-third of the market value of its value from mid-june to early july . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market may skyrocket , or falls by double digits , without triggering a broader economic crash – at least so far .
in doing so , however , very soon we arrive at a question of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , it should be possible to find out in this regard that the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates that descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to snap some black and jewish home heads . with a separate attempt to explain his trademark phrase , en même temps ( at the moment ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead remain one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberations over an ambiguous choice , “ “ at the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and who is shaking off before an unsolvable and terrifying double mystery – physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ . talk once again has turned to macron .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . argentines , who provided the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or the brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . yet there can be little disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . in the twentieth century , perón and “ vargas ” plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran huge budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation , and , in the end , suffering in currency crises . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century americans have invented political populism , with its anti-elitist posture and inflammatory rhetoric , and it has enabled real evidence of it .
what is remarkable is that it has lasted for so long . it has expressed an understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons of its own , because , as it put it , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel . israel is bound to fight back against this emerging new american doctrine that equates it with iran , or , for that matter , india and pakistan . political contexts matter ; the israelis , for their part , will argue . yet it was the recent republican declaration , by us secretary of defense robert gates , that was particularly shocking to israelis .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared the opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , headed by gbagbo ’s close ally paul yao n’dre , overturned the results from seven north-south departments , proclaiming gbagbo ’s winner of the elections with 51 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % .
littered with a host of exceptionally sensitive anniversaries , 2009 may have shown an even more dramatic and unforeseeable outcome than that of 2008 . quickly approaching this year is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s ’s ’s ’s disturbances in tibet ; it was also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest of 1959 , which led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . as the riots last spring , china ’s government took many proactive measures , even adopting a “ serf liberation day , ” defending its record in tibet of the previous 50 years in tibet , while continuing talks with the dalai lama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s representatives . moreover , compared to last year , with the rush home for celebration of lunar new year , celebration hammered out in the service of freak storms , millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural houses . many will remain there because the global economic downturn hit china hard , costing them and employment .
dealing with the deficit has required difficult decisions – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age in order to control public-sector salaries . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself wealthier by writing checks to itself . we need accountable choices , in order to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is what i am determined to deliver . a government living within its means is a necessary condition for securing the economy for the long term – but that is inadequate . success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers and opening the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india .
indeed , the recent booms in some parts of the developing world show precisely that . second , while pushing the technological frontier is a key component of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries are transforming manufacturing and export patterns , particularly by shifting resources toward higher-skill , higher-productivity activities . the key to achieving this is the capacity to diversify domestic production by generating new activity , reinforcing economic linkages within the country , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . building the industrial and modern service industries , which are critical for successful diversification , is critical . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities is a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by the sad experiences of much of the developing world in recent decades .
it was a diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy domains ( for example , in bargaining simultaneously on financial and security matters ) . the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest reference to its current usage an academic article of 1972 . the word was used earlier , but in rather different sense . the oed etymology ignores the non-english-language origins of the term that can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . today , too , few know where the term “ ” globalization originated .
without its determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and shrewd diplomacy , iraq ’s military program would now be less vulnerable to a more intensive scrutiny than it used to apply to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . achieving this extraordinary feat has been vital . should in the hands of inspections that the un security council had lied and cheated that it would demonstrate the effectiveness of its inspections , an scarcely justification for taking military reprisals . yet precisely because it is so extraordinary that it is hard to see how implementing these threats by starting a war can make any sense at all . the best “ serious consequences , ” by which the un security council warned , should iraq fail to comply with its obligations would be an even more intense effort to dismantle its illicit weapons through the continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . limiting all racketeering would be impossible , but one might start from cybercrime and cyberterrorism . obviously , historical analogies are imperfect , for good reason . in fact , major states would have an interest in limiting damage , by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . though their vision of a “ information security , ” according to this view , might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus appears unacceptable to democratic governments , identifying and targeting behaviors that are illegal everywhere .
most of the debt is owed within the state-owned system , for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off the bad debts and recapitalize the banks , finance operations with either they borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to repay old debts . indeed , with banks unable to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , as well as on a planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied and with enormous over-capacity in heavy industry . to be sure , this would still produce squandered investment . but , with some chinese policymakers responding , all growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america created huge overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that its plentiful natural resources could easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in its infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource exhaustion would leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible to garner for namibians the most option from the country ’s resources , and that it is rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining deals to ensure that is the case . a crucial feature of transparency is that the government ’s strong support of press freedom is so essential . as president hage geingob has told us , things that he does n’t like .
the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . anastasiades , the member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote in a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and that will , naturally , comprise his top priority . naturally , much will depend on how he fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . nevertheless , a cautious outlook beyond the current turbulence – and in anastasiades ’s – provides grounds for optimism . it is inconceivable that this type of cooperation could be extended to include other neighbors around the levant .
but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” the commission ’s own internal culture of the caucasus and red tape is the constraint nobody in brussels much likes to talk about . it is not the structure conducive to political coups de theâtre , and much of the commission ’s work is the relentless grind of eu regulations to statism and reregulation . yet the head of the commission is calling for europe ’s dynamic public face . for the reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents must be drawing from the ranks of past or current prime ministers .
but it will soon need to follow the small-country model like that of switzerland or norway . but it will soon need to follow the small-country model like the switzerland of switzerland or norway . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that align more with other successful small economies , not least by retaining eu membership . britain chose to exit the eu because it had an outsized opinion of itself . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of the brexit process , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it .
second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly , through crucial network effects ) , the world ’s second-largest economy has disproportionately affected projections concerning global corporate yields . and , with china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and the shadow-banking system attracting heightened scrutiny , many companies become anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are also humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many firms , less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did before . today ’s successful innovations are much less about finance , and much more so about finding the “ killer app . ”
stockholm – it has been one year since turkey ’s failed coup , raising questions about the country ’s future still abound . last year ’s attempted coup was anything but dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighter jets bombed the turkish parliament , while 249 people lost their lives . but the putsch failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized its own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fate . had the coup not been stymied within its first 48 hours , turkey would have descended into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which would have diffused well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tensions are rising across asia over north korea ’s missile program . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly denounced the launch as a “ provocative act ” and a violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducts its nuclear-weapon test . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile capability , but what happens an afterward . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military-missile launch implications . in contrast to its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time announced international agencies in advance of launching a “ satellite ” ” sometime between april 4 and 8 .
and it has just hosted the first round of eu presidential elections , which encounter europe ’s lofty standards of freedom and fairness . it has been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which established a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s partnership with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . this initiative , worth recalling , was partly a reaction to the russian-georgian invasion of georgian the preceding summer , when the kremlin sought to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would have agreed to recognize those occupied by the eu or legitimize its invasion . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome , and is doing so .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and for the eu . it will follow either by the sighs of relief ( such as it is my hope ) or the cataclysm that rocks the eu toward its core and brought catastrophe on to the uk . but the british decision , however , is what europe of multiple crises must be addressed . a policy of british steps , at least for the most part , is no longer sufficient . without a renewed vision for europe and an effective crisis-resolution approach , the continent , ’s new ( and old ) nationalists , will continue to gain in strength and compromise the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core crisis-management business . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now looks highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy , with boundless accounts , dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full on three important challenges . the first , and probably simplest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image .
but the elevation of the monetary base is only a temporary measure ; when the bonds are redeemed , they are reverts to their original footing . this eventual need to shrink the monetary base is an implicit claim to the central bank ’s assets ; therefore , the increase is rightly perceived as a liability on its balance sheet . under a helicopter money fiscal stimulus , the central bank never has to reverse the rise in the monetary base . in other words , helicopter money does not represent interest-free credits to the government ; it is a gift . because skewed holders have no say on the central bank , the boost to the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth .
with sarney out , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short-time set credits for international trading dry , started changing the election ’s face . her party accused serra ’s of orchestrating the attack , and , in a revenge attempt , her party -- the liberal front -- dropped its support to ciro gomes . then , in early july , gomes soared to 28 % , within a striking distance from lula , who had declined to nearly 33 % . gomes used the tv time available to his father ’s work alliance in late june to have a great effect , but most of the credit his rise to the polls to the great performance of his second wife , the popular patricia pillar , who was recovering from breast cancer .
claremont , california – though a precipitous escalation of violence in hong kong looks terrifying enough , things may be about to go far worse . after all , the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the late 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicated that chinese president xi jinping plans to tighten his grip on some of the former british colony at all costs . he should brace himself for the purpose of brokering a formidable bill . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has been a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiative , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . it has become a global , green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewable-energy generation to 52 % by 2030 , one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . these shortcomings partly reflect enduring vulnerabilities in governance , despite important political reforms ; notably 2011 , constitutional changes that shifted powers from a monarch to a parliament ; and legal reforms like aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as advancing family laws and gender equality . moreover , regional tensions , including escalating political instability in algeria , and a thorny issue of western sahara – have hampered integration in the maghreb , the absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa .
after all , there is little reason to believe that a fiscal compact or a proposed extra debt brakes ” will succeed where both the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . misplaced hope that a enforcement problem can be resolved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s system . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate the large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term goal of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely for 60 % – a margin where countries will have the greatest difficulty resisting temptation . rules need a credible enforcement mechanism . to be sure , in the american federal government never really bailed out a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending .
yet , following amendments to the indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the kinds of excesses that major pharmaceutical firms routinely sift in the us and europe . for example , india abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention that prevents “ evergreening ” : a process to extend a patent ’s life by taking away secondary patents for fringe improvements to a former drug . but , since the treaty on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , every world trade organization has had to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents . according to the section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ merely discovery of a new form … asset , or … use for the sole application of the well-known process ” is not eligible for a patent unless it “ results in a new product or employs at least one new reactant . ” for indian drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of patented drugs would require license , and such licenses are rarely , if ever , granted .
but bolsonaro does not want to keep the amazon chaste ; he simply wants to be among those exploiting it . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin that each foreign pervert wants . ” his promotion of the rainforest ’s development , and his attacks on environmental regulation , has led , for example , by expanding romanian nationals , especially from cattle ranching and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s national space research institute , deforestation by brazil ’s share of the amazon had increased in june to an astonishing 88 % year on year . the foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of its rainforests – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only to make it better to exploit it in the future .
of course , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea , unlike iran , has withdrawn from the nonproliferation treaty , already possesses an estimated 60 nuclear warheads , and appears to be making some progress toward a nuclear-disruption of the tipped ballistic missile capable of reaching american soil . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of every kind to remain in power . perhaps trump has started to realize that increased pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to make deals with kim instead .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would do nothing to undermine american monetary independence . no interventions in the foreign-exchange market – buy and sell foreign currencies – are involved . a third argument against instituting anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement its monetary stimulus . but this reflects a profound misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates by altering the short-term interest rate , which involves buying and selling short-term government debt .
so it is amused for them to boast that one ’s own brand of learning , whether in experimental physics , mathematics , or cosmology , is unnecessary . but the movie would n’t work unless something similar is simultaneously another widely shared assumption that scientific expertise has a value independent of any practical use . after all , it would not be funny if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; practical value , in which case , is paramount because it will be the only real reason for a charity to exist . on this view , too , the science has a quite different , higher purpose : understanding the natural world . so , while potential usefulness is the reason that governments dedicate so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than to do so .
new york – last year , united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to place human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak . yet abortion politics intervened , because republican lawmakers , leading a congressional hearing on the zika outbreak , made funding contingent on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . in fact , the position taken by the united nations has n’t helped , either . at the end of last year , american president barack obama ’s administration requested that the us congress enact a $ 1.8 billion emergency fund , in order to help prepare and respond to the zika threat . the problems with the predominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with far fewer responsibilities , while giving them too little power – are not lost on everyone .
should they become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs might stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make it much easier to seek one ’s fortunes back home . such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public and to the peoples of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . it would reverse a pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to guard its borders against migrants . at long last , these countries ’ geopolitical demographic wealth would be used to meet their own development needs .
edmund phelps ’ university of columbia reports that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism that they defines as a combination of entrepreneurial sensibility and financial institutions to channel . ” both traditions and badly needed financial institutions must be present to allow “ creative destruction ” – powerful joseph schumpeter argued that sixty years are the engine of capitalist prosperity – to dissipate . to be sure , what may be advantageous today in the us : europe and japan will confront severe problems when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage they have relative to america . but this , too , is not what sacrifices their economies are now . but is this an exact description of slow-growing countries ?
peru and venezuela hardly seem better off ; brazil may soon follow the same course . brazil ’s popularity ignacia da silva , and his team , running opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments . lula and his party are so far outside the mainstream concerning the economic thought and policies that capital has already started fleeing , despite elections months away . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds in the next . institutions are ripped off , property rights are being challenged , and a accidental and much more corrupt redistribution effort is underway .
in its most recent africa ’s energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy use will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent nearly doubling , fewer energy per person will still be available . likewise , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – for oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro – even with a carbon tax . few in the rich world would shift to renewables without hard subsidies , and surely no one would cut off its connectivity to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid , which provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person annually , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led permanently . yet western activists seem to believe that a world ’s worst-off peoples should be satisfied with inadequate , irregular forms of electricity supply .
with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which the returns from the shadow-banking system are rooted – is low and falling . likewise , in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a stock-market crash in china , with the chain-the-house reaction of defaults at the subterranean loan network and local-government financing platforms . in 2013 , the talk shifted to the hazard of a resurgent home bubble and the collapse of the shadow banking system , which is composed mainly of wealth-management firms and trust companies . where , then , will the high returns on financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ? judging by the market ’s resources , total assets controlled by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or about one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 .
by any reckoning , that is an important industry that should not suffer from over-regulation . european industries are reeling from similar problems . refining and petrochemicals are delivering the eu with a lot of its fuel , and are also an important source of tax revenues . the downstream sector , together with the distribution of fuels , is contributing a total of about € 240 billion ( $ 5.7 billion ) annually to the treasury ’s coffers . but , whereas the industry is facing threats of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulation .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump . in fact , some eu leaders ’ attitudes toward issues like immigration threaten to create the systemic challenges that will endure long after trump has returned to a life of a golf courses and a bankruptcy courts . sensible european leaders may be forgiven to send the uk politely on track , so that it can turn its attention to the threats to its long-term cohesion and fundamentals . yet draining the poison from europe will require much more than scolding the united kingdom and praying for trump ’s early abandonment . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects its minorities , and welcomed the poor and downtrodden .
if the world is to be characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – of rational expectations , efficient markets , and money-neutrality – must be revised . if the world is to be too complicated and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve its social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed so that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives and vice versa . moreover , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on the market-oriented fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility might seem paralyzing , and the contemporary political mood certainly seems to reflect that . but recognizing fallibility may actually be galvanizing , for it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics .
likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – – – to abrogate the incentives , created by almost every country ’s tax regime , for corporate leverage . a more effective approach would employ a broader range of tools , including debt restructuring . governments must also work to reduce the existing debt – and the deficient worldwide demand upon which it contributes . nor is austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to enact such large fiscal adjustments – by up to 5 % of gdp , in spain , that citizens are likely to defy them , as the greeks have done . it is simply not feasible for highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt service .
much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers over the course of the height of the financial crisis . and still others are more tangible , as giving away personal data in exchange for their access to the service . but ceos of silicon valley are no robin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors they want to make world changes , but many are intoxicated with the thought that the world will be a better world by selling its trading to the highest bidder . third , inequitable pay and stimulus structures are bad for doing business .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has earned him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome chief imam of the bradford mosque . but one must still follow through , embracing the idea that khan did n’t yielded over these issues to communitarianism common in the other side of the channel . for europe , that is what is really needed is a fundamental principle . moreover , he never wavered against critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or of his dismay at the growing number of niqabs and hijabs now seen on the london streets that prevent people , notes , from speaking up for facing them . one might say that no less could be expected from a labour leader with churchill ’s bright future .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second-payments service directive ( psd2 ) have been crucial in opening the banking system ; and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time been running regulators to smooth the path for new entrants by helping them to structure themselves to suit standards . perhaps the time to assess the financial-stability risks of open banking has been in consultation times even before the directive has gone . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” the ” ” requires banks to offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payments and account information services . the aggregators can then present a customer with an integrated views of their own finances by offering a add-on service . even now , the list of fsb work contributors shows that there has been little involved in the european commission and key european regulators .
consider finland , a nordic country endowed with many trees for its tiny population . a classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should export the timber that finland has done . a traditional development economist , by contrast , would argue that it should not export timber ; the eu should add value by converting timber into paper or furniture – something finland does , too . yet all wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s roughly limited exports . some ideas are worse than mistaken : they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues , say , the availability of raw materials , and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere .
this more profound transformation , in contrast to the low-hanging fruit eyed by many politicians nowadays , offers the only road for climate security ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and renewable electric vehicles charged by a zero-carbon electricity grid . by pursuing coal-powered fuel to gas or more efficient cigarette combustion vehicles , we risk pulling ourselves into the high-carbon trap . by 2050 , we must reach around 50 grams of kilowatt-hour , not 500 grams of kilowatt-hour . we need zero-emission cars , not more fuel-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century .
rather than becoming agents of change , they often preclude change . ( indeed , south korea ’s great economic debate nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are suffocating innovation by preventing their start-up competitors from challenging them . ) the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to accomplish with the support , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . but to ensure such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates to export industries that can grow beyond the domestic market ’s boundaries , industries in which competition encourages the discipline that they lack as the result of dominating local markets . to succeed , the conglomerates need government support and corporate acceptance .
at the same time , the negotiations would need to cover contemporary issues , including a tour d’horizon of current hotspots . what is iran done in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , in particular , syria ? for its part , how does it define its interests in these countries ? working groups might be created to attempt to build a common narrative . does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ?
domestically , china will be the first country to have , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth , to be forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . alternatively , it would quickly achieve china its “ limits on growth , ” with catastrophic ecological size and due to political consequences . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in the context of china , not the west . consider the shift away from the traditional automobile , toward the electric transport sector . given that china will be the most important market for the future , it will be decisive in determining not just what the us produces and consumes , but how .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must express the clarity intention to reduce sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels that are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . for the countries following the agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with the projected inflation and growth rates , and announce how long ( say , july nine ) this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced goals is unlikely to work , and might even turn out counterproductive , because private investors might well demand even higher returns , because the ecb ’s increasing share of gdp would be considered senior , augmenting its risk . a high-level german diplomat has reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently , on the grounds that spain has borrowed at almost the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , bizarrely , ignored spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thus confounding real and nominal rates – and more rapid gdp growth .
inflation targeting was best known as a rule instructing central banks to set up , and to try that their best to attain the target range for the annual rate of change on the annual price index of the consumer price index ( cpi ) . there were also proponents of a flexible inflation-targeting regime who held that it was fine to throw some weight around real gdp growth in the short run , so long as there was an unambiguous longer-term objective for the cpi inflation rate . but that rule has succumbed rather quickly to rampant money-seeking shocks , though friedman ’s generic argument – that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion – remains a very influential one . close cousins included price-level targeting targeting instead of a inflation rate and a targeting of core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but some took the impression that being stretched too far would lose perspective .
in the us , for example , slashing labor costs has sharply reduced the wage share of gdp . today , firms in advanced economies are cutting employment , owing to inadequate final demand , resulting in excess capacity , and uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality . because a firm ’s labor cost is someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in the aggregate . the result is that , in most cases , free markets do not deliver enough final demand .
meanwhile , employment at the amazon grew by only 47 % in the last year , to an astonishing 341,000 . but , with amazonian employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of those jobs matters very different from that which it replaces . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , the taa is not the solution to this type of ailes . after all , whereas the taa goals individuals impacted directly by foreign competition , much of the competition facing local economies can not come from abroad , and many more jobs are bailing out not in industries directly affected by outside competition but in surrounding economies . nor do import tariffs help those left behind by the blockbuster video , frontier books , compusa , circuit city , paypless , or virgin megastores .
following this spectacular russian failures , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and rife with the threat of a genuine democracy in its neighbor , unsettling to russia . in addition , if yushchenko become an international pariah , only he can turn to russia , as has president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . president putin ’s behavior seems best explained by his dislike for democracy . yanukovych stands at the top of a truly oligarchic state of the type that putin has defeated at home , and yanukovych has accused of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations . for the first time , ukrainians have shed their little-fifa complex toward a russian overboard .
with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . to be sure , farm development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains diminish the number of working-age workers , job-related education strategies across other segments of the value chain , and managing migration to cities become even more crucial . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , preoccupied with the hindu work of subsistence farming , are better suited to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge in the agricultural sector and beyond . another potential pittsburgh of agricultural development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water use , and water pollution .
for many of the treaty ’s critics , particularly those within the greek movement , such compromises made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” deal . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by the common set of – top-down – rules imposed by the treaty . such critics worry that this will force the hard way of persuading countries to cut their emissions more when it becomes clear that their collective endeavors are n’t sufficient , and may even enable some countries to make use of irregular accounting methods . this almost certainly will not have to do so . but this overlooks the lima deal ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding divisions into just two types of countries , the developed and developing world .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the city ’s chief backer , has now rocked south korean politics by arresting broad hints that perhaps he will become the next presidential candidate . ahn ’s most visible merits are his personal history of overcoming the severe challenges and that of his modest demeanor . nevertheless , recent polls show a majority of voter voters mistrust both the incumbent government and the ruling party . ahn has already become a lightning rod for any of the countries ’s buddhist anti-park and anti-president lee myung-bak ’s forces , attracting young people as well . her refusal to attack her on herself is perhaps the main reason that she continues to lead different opinion polls .
some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its preservation as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that preventing human deaths and suffering while providing some food , water , and education for all is vital . the reality is that there are simply insufficient resources to do all that good . can we really identify the economic value of safeguarding a natural world ? dhaka – we humans do not only share a planet with a variety of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we depend on it for our very survival .
and , elsewhere in the region , tiny pacific island states , in particular , are far more vulnerable to the consequences of climate change . this shifting landscape is calling for bold action on a few fronts ; · because inflation remains low throughout much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth where we are downside risk materialize . in many emerging markets and developing countries alike , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably power and transportation . while a response will surely need to be tailor-made for each country ’s specific circumstances , some of the recommendations might help for most countries :
it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat on the world stage , a stance that places it at odds with india . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship any brics country is with the united states . if the brics countries are to jell as a pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be an attainable set of political and economic goals . for example , they are generally united in their frustration with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve-currency status . the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ yearning to make the global order more plural .
by historicizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting the truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating a sign from his referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring an obvious in a miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it into in borromean ( jacques lacan ) , they probably caused us to lose touch with straightforward aspects of politics and irreversible truth . and , a third , there has been “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . i then focused on internet and gaafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events :
but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year at the summer of the summer ’s olympic games in rio de janeiro , has brought it to the very forefront of public consciousness . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unsound practice – and to save elite sports . solna , sweden , the elite of sports , and doping have long been deeply inter-related . reaching elite levels in sports will require a tremendous amount of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , few succeed , but those who do might enjoy huge personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon be a thing of the past . but isis ’s defeat and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will n’t bring peace across the middle east or even halt the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous world chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the late world war i. the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains incapable of resolving internal conflicts on its own or creating anything like a resilient framework for peace . instead , it remains stuck somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher investment . this leads to the second and more plausible explanation , which is psychological and behavioral in nature . that seems blatantly wrong : its numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . even quick answers are more effective when key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – are resilient . why are we prone to underinvesting in our economies ’ resilience ?
right before the fed action , india ’s federal reserve bank raised its benchmark short-term nominal interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 basis points , to fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it might raise interest rates further . in october , the people ’s bank of china , reacting to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rate by 25 basis points , to 2.5 percentage points and 5.56 % – respectively – the first increase since 2007 . in the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth have triggered a fearful sell-off in the markets . in the meantime , the developing world is moving in the opposite direction . in brazil , interest rates remain near 11 % .
traditionally , contracts by manufacturers in china have been scattered and fiercely competitive . larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development , which holds the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . in addition , they have little , if any , say over domestic and international regulations . traditionally , contracts by manufacturers in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adjust steadily to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
without question , the country would be better off with a more flexible exchange rate that eliminated one-way bets on capital speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber . but the literature of “ exit strategy ” on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange-rate mechanism , making it clear that the moment when china could have navigated that transition smoothly has now passed . countries may exit the pegged exchange rate smoothly only when there is market confidence in the economy , encouraging the belief that a more flexible exchange rate might appreciate in the same way as weaken . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of the iranian tourist who asks for the directions made by dublin and is told , “ well , sir , if i were you , i would n’t start from here . ” that may have been true of china every day ; it is no longer true today .
a strong version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force , for example , government-insured banks to revert to their core lending mission ) might work . the senate bill ’s provision of derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing those restrictions , have apparently lined up on the side of big banks . the legislation aimed not to ban derivatives , but merely to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized taxpayers ( remember the $ 180 billion aig bailout ) from which there are no natural or inevitable byproduct of lending . there are many ways in curbing big banks ’ excesses . but the american government would remiss to leave things .
egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . if aid flows , egypt might start to tackle some of its financing problems , but there is still a need for a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector to revive the country ’s economy . if finalized , an imf program could unleash additional assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . unfortunately , the most recent political incidents involving the democracy-promotion activities of american ngos have cooled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states .
cafeteria ( it is now more inviting and much more frequented with the advent of free foods ) or the plug & plays accelerator , proximity matters . interestingly , i heard that point at the wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred have traveled thousands of miles to meet to confront a share of thought and enhanced working relationships . being physically present at work means direct contact with other smart and creative minds . of course , those who prefer to work at home cite not only the costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of sessions – far too much culture , maybe – and a steady stream of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . and the profit benefit of human contact and interaction are why salespeople still appeal to a customize consumer , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face encounters ; i am on the company ’s board ) changed lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and speed up the market are assuming greater weight in such decisions . while trade in global goods has indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . but , on its own , globalization does not stop there . whereas global trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have declined precipitously since 2007 , digital information flows have surged : cross-border bandwidth use has grown 45-fold during the last decade ; circulating ideas ; intellectual content ; and innovations worldwide . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to ship goods across long distances .
compared to the conventional post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on multilateral negotiating rounds . in 2002 , china signed the framework agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation ( ndb ) with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . xi and his circles obviously will no longer want to dismantle the global trading system . but , in other respects , the benefits of globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from those of globalization , as we know it . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , what is committed to china “ to a rising global economy . ”
within singh , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” welfare schemes . with his 20-year accomplishment record to show the public , singh has a better case than most people should trust voters when he says he is acting in their long-term interest . the congress can rightly take out credit for the most far-reaching such a program , mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee scheme that assures one member in every rural family 100 days a year of paid employment . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that do harm his voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have any immediate impact , whereas the benefits of foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . all policymakers in democracies think in the short run ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election .
banks have much immediate interest in adjusting to meet new capital requirements and rebuild their balance sheets to the financial health of finance , which implies using the ecb money in ways that enables them to meet this goal most effectively . so , for example , when they use the cash to resume funding of the private sector , they would ensure that the loans go to creditworthy clients . this means that , like the lending provided by italian and spanish banks over the past few months , most of the new cash will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by europe ’s ’s ’s ’s banks of their countries ’ government bonds . that allows bank markets to continue to function , but is unlikely to inject the kind of stimulus that europe ’s economies are now demanding .
turkey ’s government needs to demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions are effectively protected by the human rights of all of its citizens . in doing so , it would improve its standing both in europe and beyond . turkey has an important role to play in its region and world – one that is undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . its disingenuous approach to the genocidal is at odds with its efforts to cultivate its reputation as an honest , reliable partner . but symbolic measures , while important , are not good enough to bring about genuine progress .
they want to talk to private-sector experts , who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors . for that reason , fdi has to be encouraged separately from levels of domestic investment and exports . still , with the exception of costa rica ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin american fdi promotion agencies has been successful at the adoption of best practices . many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failures of such institutional arrangements in the past . furthermore , foreign investors are reluctant to deal with diplomats or civilian employees .
with the paris climate agreement a year old , the transformation of global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , scarce earth elements , and lithium – along with mineral fertilizers that will require massive amounts to meeting the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining ’s ecological risks . companies with large portfolios of fossil fuels like coal will soon face severe uncertainty related to stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessments accordingly . phasing out coal during times of latent over-production might even do a profit .
but the observable diffraction pattern -- the intensities and positions of individual reflections -- represents only about half of the data needed to de-duce the structure of diffidating an object . it gives an amplitude , but not the phases themselves -- i.e. , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which the atomic barrier can not be fixed . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a bernal university student . the following year was given excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns in order to date . it also obtained the first x-rays of patterns in part oriented by dna .
the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november with the conclusions reached by the convention ’s working group . the key word here is what i come out most . the endgame to determine the definitive shape of europe is under way . it started with the publication , by the publication , by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of a draft of the eu ’s first sixteen articles of “ treaty , in order to establish a constitution for europe . ” such fidelity did not hold for economics , but it is the only part .
propelled by population growth and urbanization , demand outstripping supply . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience electrical outages , costing well over 15 % of annual sales , on average . in africa , where a infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion per year , firms pay more for doing business . in pakistan , for example , a 2008 census scheduled for 2014 delayed nine years and beset with difficulties when it was finally pursued . similarly , while all companies need investment and operational decision-making data , emerging markets ’ official statistics are not always reliable , and are often skewed by policy agendas .
a march 2016 editorial team of the brookings institution suffered a similar fate . russia today has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than it does at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . each of these outlets distinguished between its coverage of sensitive stories – from the conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections for journalists are non-existent . nor have closures spared leading regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad , ’s top independent weekly newspaper , novye kolesa .
cambridge – earlier this month , thousands gathered for the un ’s bonn climate change conference , germany , to ratcheting up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for future progress and continued collaboration are high . today , nations , citizens , and a growing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s goal of limiting the increase in global average temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 º celsius above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically . one more hopeful recent initiatives is the carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to place a value on carbon-dioxide emissions .
as soon as greece proceeds , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy . nothing can stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , switzerland , or new york . at that point , the one thing still stands between the eurozone and financial turmoil will be the ecb , which could buy government bonds and fund bank runs . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . but it could , in principle , step in – provided that northern europe has been permitted .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , along with others in the region , frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who had died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system allowed him to remain in power for 31 years , while using the civil , not criminal , courts to harry his opponents . but lee , more important , also relied on elements of the democratic contestation , in order to ensure that meritocracy has prevailed through patronage . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s own political interests have been allowed to dictate charges that the country ’s ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no genuine democracy that embraces the rule of law would even contemplate leveling , and convicted for evidence that no genuinely independent tribunal to embrace them . yet the path on which the two countries have embarked has not been lee a path .
but trump is part of a broader phenomenon across the democratic world . trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to the basest instincts of disaffected voters who hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust the bankers ( or anyone with a university degree , for that matter ) , and still can win over the election of a president whose father was a black man . now , all that may be so . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” or at least the id , the id , by a large number of mostly white , mostly older , mostly small-town american americans . are all his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” ” as senator john mccain , possibly unwisely , called them ?
the former boom countries like greece , ireland , italy , and spain remain mired in recession , and their gdps are likely to shrink . in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s big economies , has the sky-rocked to 20 % and still show no sign of improvement . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are also expected .
after all , this is the counsel of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s ’s national health service . healthy living now means putting bottled water bottles with us , sipping at all through their daily quota , attempting to drink our daily quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy . to be sure , drinking this much does not feels comfortable , but a powerade offers this sage attorney : “ you might be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid , so long as you build your fluid intake gradually . ” after all , this is the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s ’s ’s ’s national health service . indeed , we tend to drink without being thirsty , but that ’s how it should be : as guy maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain might know a lot , but they just n’t know when your body is thirsty .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is slumping and facing unprecedented risk sanctions on their borrowing costs . they , too , are facing huge uncertainties . so what kind of coal-fired power plants will be acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide the same way they do in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with skilled households in far-flung communities requiring long-distance automobile commutes ?
currently , the alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . these include independent groups , such as the international organization ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 has an opportunity to reshape the system of migration with proactive protection policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect of action is better this time , given the ongoing talks to europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been profoundly felt . weak mandates , insufficient funding , unorganized structures , and a absence of any global system of governance have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ ability to act with authority in the name of the most vulnerable .
by the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 computers of the world , and their processing power averaged $ 10,000 of machine instruction per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co moore noted that improvements in the semiconductor fabrication enable a doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip every eighteen months later . worldwide , about 300 million computers are 300 million , with processing power offering a number of hundred million instructions per second , one-forfold growth from raw , automated computational power , averaging an annual growth rate of 56 % ! the scale of investment required to make what is known as moore ’s law ” hold has grown exponentially along with the density of the transistors and circuits ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , and engineers see no immediate obstacles that drive the improvement process to a halt anytime soon . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come .
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students with health ambassadors for their families and cronies , we can reach an even larger share of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . but neither corporations nor governments can do it alone . in doing so , they need to work together to make the best possible outcome . by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students with health ambassadors for their families and cronies , we can reach an even larger share of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . but neither corporations nor governments can do alone .
fortunately , there is time , and many previous american presidents have set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and authorized the us state department to launch “ substantive dialogue , ” with plo leaders . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace . and , starting with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of talks between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now it is obama ’s turn , and it should push for a united nations security council resolution that sets new parameters for a future peace accord and replaces united nations security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , has attracted global attention just as did court-ordered their mental competency research . indeed , on the sidelines , a newspaper the australian mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months since the shootings fell , compared to just one mention in the previous 12 months . similarly , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in the us , media coverage has continually reinforces negative perceptions , at home and abroad . in this manner , it may well be exporting a mental-illness stigma .
ukraine is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential across a wide range of sectors . it marks a key front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . more important , successful reform in ukraine makes more positive developments in russia likely . for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , increase transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the european union ’s poorest country .
but , of course , this strategy carries serious risks that ultimately make it unworkable . realigning relative prices would demand internal devaluation , potentially leading to social and political instability in weaker ones . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi euroskeptics in eurosouth exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given the absence of a federalized state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries might exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform .
economists disagree about when , according to what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these first two objects on a checklist . should they employ the unemployed workers either directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures , or by expanding the scale of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ? the problem comes at a time when expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations and the central-bank guarantee of disorderly markets prove inadequate . so , should governments try to boost monetary velocity by selling the bonds , thereby inflating away short-term interest rates ?
but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether negotiators can first agree on what to do about the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union . it also includes a pledge by the eu to leave the single market and the customs union . you can be found in a frictionless customs union , or outside a border-free customs union . the uk ’s foreign ministers are essentially accountable to the talks – a party better known for their dogmatism and personal ambitions than their competence – have so far succeeded in securing agreement in one key region : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period will start . anywhere in the world , there is no example .
at the same time , the eurozone is highly fragmented financially , with no shared capital market , some conniving safe asset , or tools for macroeconomic stabilization . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , this mandate probably should still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below but close to , 2 % inflation above the medium term ” – is simply too narrow . the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . a broader definition requires that the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target , in the form of a 1.5-2.5 % band , over a longer time horizon .
when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east , virtually a new year ’s tradition , ­ – one need take care of caution . the israel-palestine conflict has stood for far too long , while it is declining . so many hopes have vanished amid the bitter failures of so many negotiating negotiations . but we have a wish for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing a peace , can create one of the preconditions for peace : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly offer this offer , with the 2018 fifa , the 2018 soccer world cup .
notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should wonder whether some motives are less than pure . in northern iraq , old scores are settled , and de facto ethnic segregation is being inserted into districts , like the irbil , that have been traditionally diverse . in other areas , sharia law is imposed by force . so the real question is how to reach out to the point at which iraq has a police force and a army , which may be trusted to maintain law on the same basis as order . a significant part of the ground has to be covered in order to get anywhere close .
in fact , the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld intended . of course , it would be disingenuous to oppose a thriving poland into a collapsing spain . given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . the unemployment rate is already about 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth is around 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s growth rate is negative ) . but the moods in both countries , as well as their perceptions in europe and its role in it , starkly .
berlin – the united kingdom ’s decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is hardly an example of the kind of british black humor i loathed . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit would leave the eu ’s gaping lacuna . it is not “ monty python ” ’s flying circus , the ” ” ” ” ” ” ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ the fawlty towers ” ” ; it is just boris , michigan , and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political reality are showing . but may will not destroy europe , either . currently , the same can not be said for the uk .
yet , for both sides , like outside powers , the events of 1948 , and what has followed , the occupation from the 1967 left of historic palestinian territories , represents a tragic setback . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians are reminded of the nakbeh or a catastrophe ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but the international community , palestinians and arabs all maintain responsibility as well , however at varying levels . as the state of israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians can recall the nakbeh , or a catastrophe ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave its occupied territories continues in a direct way to what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ inadmissible taking of land by force . ”
tantalizingly , they say that doing this would create a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” though they do not explain how the market will be structured . in addition , recession insurance might counter fiscal policy by imposing no costs on government , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that it will be insured against is avoided . a government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchase of recession insurance – which might help their credit markets to function – addressing a serious underlying problem in the current crisis . reduce uncertainties might augment or even take precedence over , fiscal stimulus programs for addressing the root cause of unwillingness .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . the greek saga demonstrates that the system can not manage destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be kept in check , to ensure financial stability and sustain a common currency . second , removing imbalances is the responsibility of national governments within the framework of a rescue regime arranged by the supranational institutions , the european commission , and the ecb , in collaboration with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . imbalances are not merely the result of irresponsible policies .
specifically , china ’s “ two systems ” in one country has enabled exports to bonded storage in hong kong to pad trade statistics . as a result , the trade surplus has continued to slide , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling a growing fear of a chinese slowdown . china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its export surged at double-digit rates earlier this year , until may . in fact , while the chinese economy ’s true state had long been obscured , it was now exposed to tighter regulation of activities , such as the renminbi ’s speculative trading masquerading as trade payments . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would rise to the face of a slump in the volume of cargo shipped from ports .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly where business leaders adhere to the newly articulated guidelines for sustainable investment and long-term engagement . just as chinese firms invest overseas , as mine does today in latin america , have a responsibility not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies ’ sake , it is also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . after all , m & a ’s is only the first step on a long road . for most equity investors , the value of any project depends , at least in part , on effective post-investment management . clear rights and duties must therefore be carefully worked out when starting an investment , something that was all but absent in the past .
to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility for assuring the security that underpins global prosperity and stability . members of the self-defense force have displayed exemplary cooperation with america and the australian armed forces in afghanistan in the 2011 great east japan earthquake , and have earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere they have deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and most recently , the philippines . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving . working alongside the countries with which we share common values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and sea . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan of self-defense .
for all that israel downplays its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important deal : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world , in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . israel , as founding father david ben-gurion has warned , may be a democratic state , and may be an occupying historic israel ’s entire state ; but it can not be all three . how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks going nowhere ? how can israel favored palestinian leaders , abbas , and pa prime minister salam fayyad – the us is left with any credible negotiating capacity , if talks can not begin until they do so , as israel insists , retreat by virtue of their minimal state of the occupied territories ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears completely from the agenda .
but , even with favorable global market conditions , the us did not manage to resolve the poverty-reduction problem , in which millions of russians still live . nor was it the type of crisis that provided the kind of corruption that affects officialdom at all levels , or that it has caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic . i am convinced that russia ’s agony all come down to politics , too . we russians rode along on the oil and gas industry , forgetting that those resources would not last forever . we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and a genuine check for public .
yet forcing defaulting greece out of the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , with doubtless a serious repercussions beyond the country ’s borders . in my own judgment , fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would be fatally undermined . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess realistically greece ’s lack of solvency and so stop providing ela money to its banking system . but allowing greece to default and still remain in the eurozone is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying . there are only two viable options in my own judgment .
as it stands , the housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , impeding its capacity to take advantage of economies of scale , with builders often relying mostly on the same methods used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like ceiling meters , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies can cut costs and create productivity , because workers win experience with repetitive tasks . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as by using components – for example , wall street and flooring splabs – to build offsite . china , for example , imposes a intra-capital-to-land tax on formerly public land , unless its proprietors fail to initiate a developed-country development process . this brings us to the second crucial lever of expanding affordable housing : a more cohesive and efficient construction industry .
encouragingly , developing-country governments have been in greater need of the hpv vaccine . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not simply an effective solution , one preventing 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , given that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women dying from cervical cancer every year , an average of one every two – 85 % are in developing countries . if left unchecked , that figure is projected to soar to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met several weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships among private companies , governmental bureaucrats , or elected politicians . a few high-level politicians , as well as corporate owners and executives , have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . meanwhile , the drama has taken his toll on the brazilian economy . corruption scandals have already hit the top of brazilian society .
nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether health-care pressures will ultimately precipitate the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism , with a very large chunk of the economy that emerges to a more socialist system . most countries rely far too much on command and control , and give far too little incentive for patients and providers to make efficient choices . this raises long well the world , but it exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . some societies might have decided that it is better to be red down than dead . i am not arguing for health-care capitalism , but the warning that support will become fragile , much more so than for , say , globalization nowadays .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his own feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations that depict the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ have autonomous existence and intelligence on their own , ” that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get ever more out of them than they have originally featured in them . more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman describes his discovery of new laws on physics by declaring , “ you can recognize truth through its beauty and simplicity . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman describes his discovery of the new form of musicality in the sphere of thought . similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never produce work iphones , photos of pluto , or of atomic bombs .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina have suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is required but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying , they distribute information on the second group about their willingness to withstand pain . why , with the apparently formulated alternatives on the table , has the government opted for a predictably catastrophic course of action , at such high human cost ? there are three alternatives : ignorance , intention , and strategic interaction .
a world in which the u.s. has a clear record of honoring a confidence required for it to play the role of a global economic hegemon is a far better world for the u.s. than one in which it is not trusted . here is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to the target of 4 % annual inflation or 6 % of annual nominal gdp growth , the u.s. would set in motion a quick fix in the eurozone . rather than see a 30 % euro appreciation following the ecb 's current monetary policy , german exporters are shout for measures to prevent america 's “ competitive devaluation , the ” ” ” ” finally bringing about moderate northern inflation rather than the south 's current grinding depression . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and safer world for the u.s. .
and a group of 47 republican senators has wrote a letter to iran ’s house leaders announcing that the next congress may not honor whatever the nuclear deal it reaches with obama . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies with the continuing need for multilateral engagement , and this is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , the multilateral leadership demands not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold the “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or to take concrete steps to reduce – and ultimately eliminate – – – – – its nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove to be just one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that an american can resume leadership in the twenty-first century will require another sort of engagement .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have demolished their country . while declaring a re-deemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , refusing international aid , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , to die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . that , in turn , requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , selected through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution . the destruction of venezuela must be stopped urgently if its viability as a state and society must be reformed . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because losing power would probably mean long jail terms in the united nations for drug trafficking or the hague for crimes against humanity .
indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization has spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . and now , china ’s leaders are increasingly taking that strategy inland , making critical investments in both physical and human capital . but the effectiveness of these investments will depend on the sequence and rate of implementation , and on how skillfully they adjust to each ’s distinct means , necessities , and aspirations . so far , china has taken largely the “ field of the dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ build it and come . ” four interrelated issues must be addressed .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , exacerbated his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and , in a time of the recent crisis , he has earned a halt to a mocking loudspeaker broadcasts . if china is truly distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost totally isolated internationally . will kim react to this isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or , pragmatically , by finding a more flexible approach ? that is not an easy question that needs to be answered more easily . it should be clear to kim by now that his parting of provocations does not benefit his country .
europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more migrants . the need to cope with that outcome in france and throughout europe has become more important than ever , as rioting and criminality by young , under-privileged migrants compare the rise of far-right political parties . the only thing that has changed has been the rise of islamic fundamentalism and the loss of religious radicalization among some young people . europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , europe badly needs more migrants . the statistics are perplexing and sometimes conflicted , but europe ’s currently foreign-born population of some 33 million can grow to an additional 100 million immigrants by mid-century .
countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly at a disadvantage in science , not because there is inadequate academic excellence , but because english-language journals make the shots . non-english academic journals simply do not command the same attention in the sciences . as a result , the extent of research topics many countries might undertake is limited , and they must struggle to retain their scientific talent . just as the english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that identify whether or not a scientist will have a successful career , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data-infrastructure to spot domestic researchers on a more competitive footing . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection process , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address those worries head-on . he should be judged not by his past or her links to the trump administration but by its delivery . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
but what matters are the real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rate , that is , the difference between the market rate and the rate of inflation . on the real side , there are essentially two competing explanations . first , the secular stagnation hypothesis of monetary medicine proposed by larry summers . its key premise is that equilibrium interest rates at which demand would rebalance supply currently falls below actual interest rates . this seems a rather paradoxical finding , as interest rates remain near zero in most advanced economies .
but the most important lesson revealed by the arab cup in africa is that successful nations are those that combine globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . to win the arab cup was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire or any of the other african teams that loaded with star players from european leagues , but egypt , which fielding just four players ( out of 23 ) that play in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt beat in late may featured a single “ home club ” player , and 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans watching this game , but egypt has played much better and deserve to win . for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe was reducing their commercial opportunities during a critical moment for the league .
berlin – the world ’s task in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling is no easier by countering an impoverished and effectively defeated country . though metternich has sought to deter any potential french resurgence , he has restored france ’s prewar frontiers . by contrast , as henry kissinger argued , the victors in world war that i could neither deter the defeated germany , nor provide it with incentives for accepting the treaty of versailles . the genius of the habsburg empire , prince klemens von metternich , in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars was that it not pushed a defeated france into a corner . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is the most necessary .
america experienced a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed long and severe in 1981/1982 . and , having detached from the transition from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential for now that two recessions were identified . yet , in fact , the us economy grew up in the interim – just barely enough to contemplate them of distinct recessions . in fact , many economists believe that it was one major episode , and that is probably the fitting way of thinking about it in a broader historical context . at one time , sometimes dating a recession is a judgment call .
for example , us sanctions regimes were in place at an average rate of roughly seven per year in the 1990s . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , had been subject to some form of american sanctions . indeed , the large majority of sanctions are imposed by major countries against small ones . currently , the us possesses almost 8,000 sanctions worldwide , with iran by far the largest statewide target . of the 67 cases in that decade , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , were subject to some form of american sanctions .
in a same tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , trump reiterated a false charge that china is devaluing its currency to gain the export advantage vis-à-vis american companies . worse still , by announcing america ’s withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership – designed at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows under western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning an american policy that might check china ’s surging influence in asia . in reality , china now boast hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and is trying to prop up the renminbi in the face of capital flight . his grasp of international economics is either non-existent or 10 years out of date . trump is evidently antagonizing china for no good reason .
china ’s interest in regional and global institutions appears designed mostly to bolster its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than to help set the rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , russia is a land of narrowly-based economics , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and across europe . what we do know for sure is that there is no alternative great power ready and able to step in , and assume what had america ’s role in it . india is preoccupied by the challenge of economic development and tied up its problematic relationship with pakistan . although china is a accustomed candidate , its leadership has focused largely on consolidating the domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest .
beijing – china ’s annualized gdp growth slowdown has decelerated , to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter , and its lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . the newly freed up of growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china ; but it has nonetheless spurred many to argue that china needs to stimulate its economy further , in order to ensure 8 % annual growth . from early 2010 until last 2010 , to contain inflation and real-estate bubbles , the chinese government tightened monetary policy . the slowdown in china ’s growth rate , to a certain extent , reflects the government ’s success in attempting to rein in the real-estate bubble , just as it did with other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . as a result , with inflation down from a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data , it seems to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , if modestly .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . from a moral standpoint , there is a powerful case to be made for regarding a woman ’s individual liberty and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to put her health or well-being at risk by carrying out unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to a term . yet , given how rife with misinformation and a deploy of misplaced arguments , policy debates often go nowhere if they frame abortion , first and foremost , as health . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
with no access to education at all , this generation – which will soon take the most for its most – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but for how long will most serve a minority ? the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeps them off the global development agenda . each day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by the promise of employment , means , means , and better lives , only to realize their unwillingness to stay alive and to ensure that their children grow up in a slum . the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeps them off the global development agenda .
disasters lurking in the distances are legion : droughts and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; human steadily and inhuman extinction ; falling temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; the depletion of clean air and water disappearance ; farms and fish . all of these disasters – and many more still to imagine – are possible , and many of them are unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost , is to prevent all . the problem is that the principle can not be applied consistently . a world in which we live is the ultimate garden of a very well-explored territory , surrounded by the dim , dark side of disaster .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , us economic policy has centered on unemployment . the massive job losses of the great depression – reversed only when world war ii , and the large debt-financed debt that was accumulating to finance it , restoring economic growth – have had a lasting impact on at least two generations . yet employment is just one facet of welfare ; in today ’s globalized world , it is simply not enough . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the twentieth century ’s cold war jump two rival military alliances against one another . the sino-american rivalry , by contrast , involves two economies that are closely integrated both internally and with the rest of the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
from 1968 to 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of all people living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) and split off from mauritius at the time of its independence . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were undertaken and left to fend for themselves . the way in which the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and thrown off their land in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy , for which the west can and should make restitution . the british foreign office claimed at the time that the chagos islands did not have a settled populist . this was done at the behest of the united states , which in the age of the vietnam war , and demanded for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia as an air and naval base .
islamabad – late last year , pakistan witnessed the second-successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister ahmed khan taking office after his party won a general election on an anti-corruption slogan . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing to work with both technocrats and the opposition parties to address pakistan ’s ’s many daunting challenges . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur a all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made accessible to systemically vital financial institutions even at a time when these are insolvent and disputed . unless governments come to the rescue of intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark upon a long spell of the classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns . owing to the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue contingency collateralized funding to at least five creditworthy institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks are in trouble – and must affirm the need for the counterparty is financially viable before any funding can make it available . in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . but the challenge of proving whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left for after the financial order has emerged .
a default by greece , after all , could have the same global systemic consequence as lehman brothers ’ collapse did in 2008 . the eu and the ecb are worried about the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ” fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing is more fragile and liable to fail without a war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on sovereign debt , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . at the same time , if greece fails to adjust its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still likely be unable to prevent contagion risk premiums on the rest of the euro zone , and a consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . sovereign spreads are already pricing the same global systemic consequence from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and subsequent us pressure from washington led to a u-turn by pakistan from pro-jihadi policies . human rights groups urged the necessity of expanding pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , in which religion-based parties have broad support . these religious parties , a coalition that now heads a provincial government in the northwestern frontier province , have been politically marginalized until it takes a central role by pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert intervention in the war against afghanistan ’s soviet occupation of afghanistan . throughout its rule , religion-based politics have grown alongside the number of madrassahs and the fighters trained and american intelligence agencies .
throughout its history , america has always tried to deflate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may still nod when the global free market is being invoked , but in practice , for the world follows an older , more durable model . throughout its history , america has always tried to nudge its markets away from foreign competition . so , for the time being , history has once more triumph over ideology . so , for history , too , has once more triumph over ideology .
the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to gain control of the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s state-owned national petroleum corporation , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staffers . chávez morphed into a personal fiefdom and used it as a cash cow ; many of his social programs came directly from the corporate ’s ’s budget . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated several american oil companies ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and held back production . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , increasing both accidents and restricted production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both to iran ’s nuclear installations is yet another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would most likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , using hamas and hezbollah vis-à-vis israel and others . iran might as well meddle in the production of oil , leading to price spikes and delivering a further blow to america ’s and global economic recovery . moreover , while a preventive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and might also create conditions that wreak havoc on the regime ’s domestic opponents . but , for these potential drawbacks , armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the regime ’s enormous strategic costs .
whereas the conservatives want scotland to be in a european britain without europe , the scottish nationalists want scotland in a european without britain . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing the two union unions – with europe , and between england and scotland . and with northern ireland led by sinn fein demanding a vote to reunite with the south , the very existence of the uk is currently squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : may ’s government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with the eu on the basis of the norway option of eea membership . lord north is remembered for losing the british union “ with the american people . ”
assad ’s war aims have been reduced in order to avoid a decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . the tight-knit members of his own clan , its political allies , and numerous members of the alawite minority are fighting for their very survival . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s ’s ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly division along sectarian lines . assad ’s ’s ’s ’s final days are unlikely to be fully realized . the islamic state ’s rise has lend its support to the turkish government on the grounds that syria risks being overtaken by terrorist groups ; but , however , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated .
if the super-rich believe that they are no longer a part of society and have little need for government , that is not because that belief corresponds to objective realities . it is because the prevailing narrative line in the us of the times , portrays the markets as self-selected entities that run on their own fuel . this represents a narrative afflicting every segments of society , the middle class , none less than the rich . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and greater social inclusion . there is no reason not to expect the super-rich to act less selfishly than any other party .
but , while it may explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates have been low for the past three years , this can not be traced to why spending on capital has been insufficient to prevent trending rates from more than three decades . here , the only explanation still stands is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production similar to that of manufacturing , toward a less capital-intensive , like services . there should be tax incentives for firms that hire the longer-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for the social-capital spending gap ; and still higher capital requirements for banks , as well as stronger regulation by nonbank financial institutions , in order to prevent them from excessive risk-taking . when a disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should have available . finally , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown .
once again exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin peasant ; russians presents a façade of law and democratic institutions , but over whom cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election in may , with again criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — the speaker of the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is exports . across russia ’s close abroad , a form of criminalized putin ’s diplomacy takes root .
in latin america , too , many people are living with outbound hands . across the region , politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to “ philanthropic ogres ” make our clients , people who expect the eu to demand . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people are supposed to receiving just enough in order to survive the eu and society . too many entry barriers exist for the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . a democratic latin american country limps along the way , because it can not run ahead .
but this is not what these indexes really measure . for starters , competitiveness has to do with the ability to raise market share without sacrificing margins or undercutting wages , something that reflects superior productivity . moreover , two examples of this include the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index . instead , the indexes cover variables – what they refer to as the “ policy space ” – that are supposedly intended to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth . inclusiveness with growth must occur alongside disparities in income and growth across different regions and social groups .
whether one regarded the dutch welfare state humane and broad-minded or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s onwards , those conscription about the netherlands often lamented a “ dutch disease . ” there were so much generous subsidies , grants , grants , and transfers , targeting everyone from the truly needy to artists unable to sell their work , that after-tax wages often barely exceed benefits . hence , people seldom returned to work after they lost or abandoned a job or did so in an underground economy with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike , say , say , france , the french , the dutch have responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market .
yet significant segments of the global financial and economic elites seem to think that unless america slips into recession in the coming months , trump is reelected . moreover , their prognosis is based not just on fears of falling once again ; many appear resigned to such an outcome , with some may even hope for it . at the moment , the comparison with the 1930s is inevitably to take hold . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler seem to have little in common . but , in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s re-election , large segments of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s own finance and industry elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to preempt such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , provide youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . governments need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies intended to ensure that the gains are shared far more equally and sustainably . market mechanisms are not just enough to make this happen . to be sure , some asian governments have been pushing hard on inequality with progressive redistribution policies . south korea ’s government , for example , recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights into their helmets in order to give a tank gunships straight off the fire at egyptians just ahead . the egyptian defenses blocked central highways across sinai with an enriched box containing powerful artillery , and more than 100 tanks , fronted by three simultaneous trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sanddunes , and soaring ground at every turn . still , the egyptian artillery had been superior , and it was supposed to have at least silenced the firing tanks . but paratroopers , downed by helicopter gunships , suddenly jumped an egyptian gun crews who had never had a chance in a hand-to-hand combat . sharon had his forces climbed through lavish sand dunes to enter trench lines at their highest end and attack down their length , a simple maneuver that egyptians could beat up with an artillery barrage and israeli tanks directly at them .
such certifications are even more relevant in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . in the last three years , 11 % of australia ’s large population has completed such a course , in part owing to requirements that people in specific positions , such as child-care workers , possess first-assistance certificates . requiring that people in particular occupations – including high-school teachers , nursing , and police officers – acquire mental-health first-assistance certificates would significantly enhance participation , thereby bolstering support for those who struggle with mental-health problems . a pilot work in rural india demonstrates that the mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of resource-constrained communities .
the tragedy of millions of impoverished people die from aids , even at a time when the drug exist to treat it raises profound questions about global intellectual-property rights , because patent protection creates a barrier for vital medicines to reach the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides market incentives for innovation and new discoveries are coupled with the assurance that the poor can gain access to the medical care they so desperately need ? in response to this offer ( and the wrong publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three huge patent-holding companies , announced that their willingness to provide the african market at “ zero earnings ” – ie , at about $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drugs they produce . at the same time , the costs of creating these drugs far less than the market price , possibly as low as $ 350 – $ 500 a year for some of the three-drug combinations used to treat aids . some of the high-quality producers of generic drugs such as india ’s cipla has been offering to provide these drugs at prices almost to their cost of production .
having never held an elected office , macron has created a new single-party , centered , with support from both center-left and center-right voters . this reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience himself . he seems , after all , to have restructured french politics . but what if populist movements ’ continuing electoral success helps to drive forward a wider political restructuring that ultimately reinforces european democracy ? next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more of the potential for such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , a cover for the time magazine an “ person of the year ’s ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her native liberia that year , but also helped waves of aids patients arriving at her ward ’s aids ward . karwah was a hero who had met a tragic end . one year ago , she died from complications at childbirth , a murderer that each month takes about twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe quit with a mother ’s death . childhood childbirth has proved dangerous for girls and newborns across all of their human history ; it has also been jeopardized .
an estimated two million syrians are living in turkey , with over one million living in jordan . most of them are living outside of refugee camps , and many are working – for the most part illegally . as a result , unemployment in turkey and jordan is roughly 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could potentially cost their citizens ’ jobs . with the support of the united states , the rest of the region has wished to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors .
now that american politicians speak of “ liberty , ” ” people are seeing bombing campaigns , the chambers of torture , and the permanent threat of a deadly terrorist attack . the issue with obama ’s america is rooted in the conflicting character of his administration . there was no doubt about the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq . but the language , used by those wars ’ neo-conservative proponents , came straight from the “ kennedy era ” : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason americans elected obama back in 2008 was that the rhetoric of us idealism again led the death and displacement of one million .
this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . president bush ’s recent visit to asia produced little news – by design . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained as simple , one-off ” affairs with little resonance . but that is because bush did not begin to address an issue that is looming ever larger in the region : the changing face of security in asia in view of china ’s increasing economic and military might . this was followed by russian news reports suggesting that china , russia , and india would conduct a trilateral military exercise named “ indira 2005 , ” on a par with the end of this year .
anticipatory city planning , based on genuine demographic projections , patient registries , and health-information systems , together with participation in urban health-knowledge network , needs to be realized . proven systems and reform should be shared among emerging-market cities , with successful new innovations and ideas to align with local conditions . emerging-market governments need to address the critical issues arising from weak intra-continental coordination and among , national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . they should consider reforms involving giving city governments the authority , resources , and accountability they need to tackle health and health-care outcomes . this involves new , affordable technologies such as low-cost , mobile telephony for community-health workers .
shanghai – tight media control of the unrest in tibet has followed what , to some , looks like far more open-minded coverage to the devastating earthquake in the sichuan province . is this supposed turn to china ’s media strategy , or has mere short of tactics ? that question stands out , given chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . much to the western media consternation , the chinese people worldwide lashed out against their supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt . throngs of chinese expatriates and the students took to the streets , protesting a prejudice perceived in western media reporting .
meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( glucose polymers ) , which was also transported to the liver , through the glycolycolycolytic pathway and cracked down on power . and nature did its part by supplying all of the naturally occurring baucose with either the fat or carbohydrate as the source of energy , not both . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to free out of insulin , which transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and which also caused the liver to store glucose as the glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears ’ ’ livers remained healthy . so , too , their livers remained healthy .
there is widespread misperception across the developed world that the us has already championed the battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has only just become less visible . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and an additional 34 million people living with hiv/aids requires treatment to remain alive . across africa , the illness is estimated to have reduced average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points per year .
the uk would have to accept the sort of satellite status norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it will not participate in shaping . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it would be left alone , out of the economics cold . leaving the single market would impose grave uncertainty on the british economy , particularly its own financial sector . even the us has declared its willingness to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . remaining in the single market , though , comes at a cost – one that british voters might not endorse .
the second is the election , also to be held in march 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that will need to authorize the united states and its nato allies plausibly claim , plausibly handing the country over to legitimate government . for afghanistan , ravaged by a war without respite since the 1978 “ saur revolution ” , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . as the american military abandons , it will enter another era of political and strategic uncertainty , following nearly a half-century of disorder and civil war . the first is managing the afghan control transition , which depends for the orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly walk into a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on the post-brexit relationship will do enormous damage to their own countries .
after all , such change is best served not by imposing stifling sanctions or via army “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvements and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . in fact , while america did not seek to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longstanding – and already much-diminished – – – – – – support for the castro administration . the normalization of relations with the us holds the key to cuba ’s liberalizing trade . this is no longer an option , either . indeed , forecasts that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style political autocracy and an economic opening may prove accurate only in the short run .
it is well known that weidmann does n’t like it when central banks , particularly the european central bank , purchase sovereign bonds . though countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis erupted , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may tempt policymakers to protect domestic markets while trying to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is to work , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars in the process – is slim . but to argue that unconventional monetary-policy measures would implement risks of “ much stronger exchange-rate politicizing ” misses the mark . in recent years , much political activity has either been narrowly focused on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions .
today , the us is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now it is still likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . a 1 % increase in the number of immigrant university graduates results in a 6 % increase in us patents per capita . not only is immigration relevant to us economic power ; given almost all developed countries ’ populations are aging and facing the burden of providing for the older generations , it might help to stem the tumult of the policy problem . moreover , although studies suggest that the short , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and that unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled immigrants can be important members of particular economic sectors .
likewise , emphasizing markets ’ “ decisive role in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumption-driven society . in fact , just two out of the six major economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . the call for enhanced social security coincides with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care . but what emerges from this is yet another example of timeworn kitchen sink ” ’s approach to chinese economic policymaking – innumerable proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely linked at best , and that are often beset by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic realities confronting the ecb today are that the american economy is coming down headlong into a severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cuts speaks volumes to that . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy – including in europe – is escaping its consequences . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will depress the energy , commodity , and food prices in world markets , all of which are important drivers behind the currently elevated levels of european inflation . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do the work of him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on change that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could become a menace to the continent once again . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays $ 526 – the highest eu price – by far . every major player in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly fell into line politically , enabling putin to exploit ukraine ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that he could not intimidate militarily , owing to nato , were wooed with rebates – or sanctions on price hikes . poles have paid a steep price , but they were right .
the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system to accept a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . but , though accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little fact-finding basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare , so rare that it can be dealt with directly . instead , the world created less baroque , a bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , crop breeding , and the creation of intellectual property . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its parties and the un office on 15 research institutes that comprise the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
he has also cut off resources channeled to certain religious institutions , helped those in his circle to establish private banks by easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military entity , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has declined considerably , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as the “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , the non-state media nowadays publicly criticizes his economic and political agenda . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , an unpopular , unpopular president seems unlikely to abandon his effort to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he has long supported mashai as his successor , yet khamenei has curbed his illegal efforts , and has now placed a stop to more mashai his candidacy altogether .
the tax plan stressed that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and private wealth . under monti ’s leadership , his reforms were finally initiated , and markets were calmed . as the economist marco fortis points out , italian family wealth continues , if not for long , second to none in europe . in order to enhance confidence in official finances , monti ’s administration substantially raised taxes , particularly on property , while preserving italy ’s already record-high income-tax rate . beyond his growing international credibility , the two big changes across italy ’s political landscape have shaped the election campaign .
one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn – the ­ – including for me , when i was the australian attorney general and foreign minister – is the futility , in all but a diminutive minority of cases attempting to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution usually boosts its leakers ’ stature , produces it futile as a deterrent . it does not undo the original damage and typically compounds it with further publicity . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when they see it reddening of the faces , with the barrage or degradation of those in power . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to be made , just as a privacy zone in our individual and family life has been crucial to sustaining relationships that matter most to us .
clearly , there is no form of brexit – or a post-brexit britain – that satisfies both groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through the eu as soon as possible . moreover , though may was in the europhile camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she is held responsible for any setback in the brexit negotiations . she wants to leave before voters realize that the leave campaign has sold them a false bill of goods , including her promise that they could retain all the benefits of eu membership – particularly full access to the european single market – without allowing a free movement of labor . she also recognizes that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly noticing “ wins ” the ” ones .
among other things , such survey data should aim to create a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . to complement that effort , we must also invest to enhance our understanding of how these risk factors – most often studied in connectivity with early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . more studies are required to inform our health policies and planning adequately . according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of early deaths and injuries from adults aged 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops to just 26 % . data-collection efforts should also include a focus on mental health .
but talk of regime change may have induced musharraf to re-enter the politics . only a politician with the backing of major constituencies can hope to restore the political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate whom the military might support . thus , in a protracted conversation with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that might rescue the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan and the place where people go to be the military , ” he said . pakistan these days is a troubled country , politically and economically .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , the west ’s democracies find themselves struggling to secure a stable , long-term growth path forward , say , an authoritarian china does not . there are at least two ways to address this challenge in a democratic way . first , governments could be more committed to their predecessors ’ policy choices . the european union provides one example of how long-term , binding commitments can work . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that was hotly debated and enacted will have time really to take effect , without the risk that it would simply be postponed by an ensuing administration .
at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be put together prominently on every politician ’s agenda running for elections , at all levels of government . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public expenditures to education . for the sdgs to be operational , education has to receive higher bilaterally , nationally , and globally . this starts with the political will , and setting priorities . moreover , the ongoing shortfall of aid for education must be reversed , with new sources of financing – like emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – being mobilized .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it has to act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties their hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to rigid reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thereby causing a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , most likely forcing some midsize banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems . ukraine ’s existing refinance rate is 16 % per year , 10 % less than the inflation rate , which means that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s money-supply ratio , m3 , has burst by no less than 52 % last year , which points to inflation hitting its 30 % soon . rationing is always worse than markets are .
iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position would become more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority . one can only hope that , given the seriousness of the situation , this route to failure would be closed down . the first worries iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , for neither conservatives nor reformers were prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s diplomatic triumph . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are equally likely to play a role . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united front of arab states backing turkey , the us , and , crucially , israel .
as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour came and gone . ” its lack of vision , divisions , an obsession over legal frameworks , an unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy contrasts starkly with the united states more dominant even than rome ’s … but the trouble is not europe , that is our obsolete grasp of power . the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hamstrung agreements , and resolving conflict by multiple committees may be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is becoming increasingly relevant for a range of issues in a networked and interdependent world . insofar as the term still has any significance , the world has become bipolar and arguably remains so for the foreseeable future . the american political scientist andrei moravcsik makes the case for a similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , comprise the only states other than the us , which is able – to exert global influence throughout the spectrum – from the ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’
tehran – these iranians will go to the polls on june 7 to elect a new president . while some will argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is indeed not at all clear-cut . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly stated in public settings that it will not declare his preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there have been some rumors that i support a special candidate for the upcoming presidential election . ” but i have one vote , and i would n’t establish any candidates , because the people themselves should elect their candidates on the basis of their self-recognition .
likewise , moving toward a territorial tax system will raise taxable income , particularly in the short run , because companies repatriate some of the current stock of overseas money . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes , as individuals increase their earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus in the future . although net tax changes may widen budget deficits in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which create rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . the republican party has only a very small majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule demands the three-fifths majority to pass most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block a republican tax agenda .
combining them has brought its asylum system to a close end ; separating it would help insure that those in fear of their own lives can be delivered through a fair hearing at which their rights are safeguarded . the eu must also revitalize its operation sophia initiative to address refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europeans need the eu to deal with economic migrants and asylum-seekers . addressing genuine eu economic and social needs requires an effective blue – or green-card policy for economic migrants with an overall immigration target . and policymakers must not wait for the next migration crisis before the scheme can be introduced .
to what extent are conditions comparable today to those that triggered the 1997 asian crisis or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? in both cases , efforts to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals were a major factor , as was true in turkey in a year earlier following its currency collapse in february 2001 . will the fed ’s gradual easing of qe bring about more emerging-market trouble this year ? emerging-market bulls point to the fact that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal space they have lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis was caused by large public-sector deficits .
both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies allow older people to work for more years , enabling everyone to work fewer hours . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies allow older people to work more years and allow everyone to work fewer hours . one option is to move toward an average $ 25 per hour on average and an average day ’s working life that extends to more than $ 70 per day , and on an even higher rate if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours a week . one option is to move toward an old-age workweek of 25 hours and an average working life that expands to age 70 and makes even higher ages should healthy life expectancy continue to rise .
denmark ’s government has done just that , and seems to bring the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . prime minister tony blair is evidently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but , because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . denmark ’s government has done just that , and seems to bring the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . in fact , “ prm ” britain may be simply impossible . prime minister tony blair is evidently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining europe , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try .
whereas the bush administration remains skeptical about the science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting cuts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions . more important , companies like general electric are committing themselves to the green goals that go well beyond government regulation . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cell cells will curb oil imports in the long run , such measures require major changes in the transportation infrastructure that will take decades to complete . a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies the new coalition . midway out of the scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial level in 2100 .
achieving this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds intriguing and engaging , whether it comes with finance or physiology . meanwhile , they should invest in acquiring communication skills that will be similarly critical to successful careers . hardly anyone makes that all-encompassing route to the top in the business world . people in these fields are ultimately bought and sold off corporate managers in the same way as people in the technical field . an important point for giving students a point in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , of subjects they study to fulfill the true expert ’s role in anything field they ultimately choose to pursue .
but this one day is also about spreading a message on behalf of elizabeth ii and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , the reality of life is simply a reality . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties ; 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds identify with organized religion . but abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often severely limited . abortion occurs in any country , as well as in any socioeconomic class . every year , about 25 % of all pregnancies – some $ 56 million – expire .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , just because they will understand that it would just lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough-minded ecb stance too . the ecb should not delude itself in thinking that a small hike in interest rates will suffice . if and when wage pressure hit , the ecb , in order to remain true to its word , might force the ecb to raise interest rates far more than it now expects .
bills were written at urging hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries , which argue that internet copyright violations cost american 100,000 jobs . megaupload enabled its 180 million registered users to upload themselves and their download movies , tv shows and music , and some of the money they earned by dotcom ( itself from its advertising and subscriptions ) to be shown at its mansion near auckland , where it maintained its rolls-royce and other exotic automobiles . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that megaupload was merely providing storage for its subscribers ’ files and had little control over what they were store . but megaupload offered cash rewards to users , who uploaded filers who proved deeply popular with other users . just last month , the united nations considered legislation to stop internet piracy .
moscow – when an opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins within a few days , viewers will be presented with a minutive spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . of course , images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are just the latest thing china ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” as part of an idyll of “ harmonious development . ” but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which have been a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public spaces and sporting events into a visible show of their fitness and mandate to govern .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of this role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the topic less relevant , and has diminished its sense of legitimacy and credibility . in order to regain credibility , economics needs a more open-minded criticism of assumptions , methods , and results . economists no longer see much of the public asking the right questions , or seeking a response to their integrity . deftness by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . china , by contrast , is dynamic and outward-looking – give good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnership with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . and this imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . the united states is reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a congressional majority .
equally significant was the projection by china as the nascent leader of the new international cultural order . the “ bird ’s nest ’s stadium ” was the creation of the multinational design team of herzog & de meuron with suggestions from the visual artist ai weiwei . other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army soldiers , one would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its best . many artists involved in creating a spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , france ’s star shen wei , and the composer tan dun earned their fame primarily in the west .
my research , which has included thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve welfare in the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they are already doing on their own . one powerful way to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is through the promotion of financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” the ” networks of like-minded women , who are paying dues , in order to build a shared pool of resources . this money may then be drawn on to fund any number of objects , such as little business spending , school fees , or health-care costs .
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative world government but the fact that the g8 days now seemed numbered . politically and economically , china and india matter much more today than the members of some of the european g8 . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint spreads globally , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . so , too , did the summit ’s outcome fall far short of a miracle . president putin ’s behavior at the summit has made it clear what he thinks of europeans ; not too much .
though the eu claims that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought by the epas , as negotiated , are likely to be concentrated on a handful of agricultural products and exclude the least-developed countries . in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund would have to be established to compensate for some of the short-term losses . african leaders are right to be alarmed . some argue that the problem is about the timing , because losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the possible benefits brought by increased eu access will take longer to emerge .
he has demonstrated how history can be presented and over-valued in totally different ways : from the american or japanese point of view , even as no one makes up facts or falsifies sources . selection and a combination of data is all the more than what is . for example , in 1995 the smithsonian institution in washington , for example , sought to take fresh view at enola gay , a plane that dropped an atomic bomb on hiroshima . to the american came in the form of a heroic or victorious account , in which atomic bombs represent the ultimate blow against an more aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy of the new america . john dower , the american historian and modern japan specialized , studied the issue at length .
it would push the real issues down the road , rather than closing the brexit debate . that show would have years to run , which means taking its place . it would have to band together at the european council ’s october 17 meeting , where european leaders are increasingly frustrated with the entire process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the seventeenth-century service team that led the previous brexit negotiations . any new deal will be perhaps ’s old deal with a couple of bells and whistles .
and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was not bad enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union on its own . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have generated homegrown political leaders who frighteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán have mainly busily constructing intra-eu illiberal states . likewise , our inability to come together to halt syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people has left a void uniting putin and iran . european leaders all too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests .
to deliver opportunities and security to all of them , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . as the nature of work changes , so , too , does the nature of benefit systems . a common framework must also be crafted , so that such programs can be brought to an end and act in different contexts . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” rather than being denominated in a single specific currency , would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers are increasingly needed to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain their value as they shift to those who earned them .
on the surface and at the bottom , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation is down to negligible levels . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were in wall street ’s awe ; brazil does not have any such hang . if and when the latter part , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are alarmed by their own fine , rather than the prosperity for foreign investors . moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil responds to the crisis in a far different way to mexico .
but do not despair : there is still time to save our climate . transforming how people acquire and consume power and use land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . transforming how people acquire and consume power , and using land , will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increasing the use of no-till farmed animals , embracing permaculture ’s principles , improving management of wetlands , and using rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . transforming the way people acquire and consume their energy and use of land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for their success .
many of the democratic candidates have called for major expansion of government-sponsored health care . a few contenders , including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke , do not fully agree on the details of such schemes , or simply have not spelled them out . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare , financing a wealth tax of fortunes above $ 50 million . but following former us president barack obama ’s attempt to redress america ’s health-care catastrophe with halfway measures , arguably the most that was politically feasible at a time when those vying for the democratic nomination apparently have more ambitious plans . but their proposals – a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , a national health service , or , to everyone – do not mean all of the same things .
but there is another explanation , one completely consistent with rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is only natural for voters to discount the promises they make . in the language of economists , centrist politicians confront the problem of asymmetrical intelligence . they claim the reformers to be the reformers , but why should voters believe that leaders who seem no different from the previous crop of politicians that over-sold them the gains from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ? voters are more likely to attract candidates who have anti-establishment credentials , and they can safely be expected to deviate from prevailing policies .
though kagame remains popular , his government has been criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff is sustained progress toward economic and institutional governance . today , leaders in rwanda who are widely regarded as an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . the landslide victory of president paul kagame last year had more in terms of power than in democracy . politically , rwanda is a strong , disciplined , and organized one .
moreover , there is a clear , shared interest to do just that : nobody benefits from widening systemic risk . cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on a threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that seems to be coming under threat as soon as possible . continued economic progress across the developing world and recovery in advanced countries requires preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering large systemic shocks . in terms of priority , it arguably has more to do with g-20 governments strengthening core systems that allow for global flows than it addresses strictly economic concerns .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that large banks have never properly been investigated for mortgage-backed origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that was central to the financial crisis – and a loss of more than eight million jobs . but prominent banks are also charged with illegal behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , about the interest rate that would actually pay them , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focusing on reported abuses at servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . if these charges turn out to be true , the bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits will uncover evidence that could be applied in criminal prosecution . but , following the best efforts by new york monterman attorney general , eric eurogroup , and others , to a serious debate has begun in the united states about a out-face of a court mortgage settlement between the state attorney general and prominent financial-sector firms .
“ over the rivers and down the highways and down the highways and along innumerable jungle pathways , ” the residents of eastern pakistan continues the hemorrhage into india : the unorganized flow of refugees with a couple of tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothing piled on their heads , carrying your sick children and your old . they pad along barefooted lines , with a mud sucking up its heels . they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then , their future tell the story . others have cholera , and when killed by the roadside there can not bury them .
now the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming presidential election . charges of currency manipulation and threats of protectionist measures have intensified as well . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that has propelled european integration and kept it at the center of the postwar multilateral system . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order . with the uk giving free trade in the 1840s , having now chosen to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are imposing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods .
new york – at a time when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i could n’t wait for my first-ever gender education class . in our early teens , my classmates and i were curious as we were clueless about sexual and sexuality . yet , rather than receives reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , interactions , and sexuality , we were simply handed a book to read a particular chapter , leaving the practice beyond our own lives . millions of young people worldwide received similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead additional iranian provocations .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has had any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . regardless of how facebook , with a digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already provided a wake-up call to firms and policymakers around the world . “ if there is one thing to do , let the us be rather committed to it than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously from nowadays , an impoverished , autarkic country that nixon has visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse , and it is still more important than ever . china ’s presence is felt all over the world , from factory mines in africa to apple to shop in the united states . it is the world ’s second-largest exporter in volume respects and makes it the world ’s second-largest economy . as the us reflects china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to reflect on how china continues to fall short of its systemic barriers to its long-term success .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but this amounts only to a downward shove to an export-led economy , which is already slowing as it makes the shift away from the export – and investment-led growth toward the more sustainable indigenous consumption-led growth . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the inherent contradiction between an ever-more centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth might fall quite dramatically . unfortunately , the possibility of avoiding a switch to consumer-led growth and continued support from us exports and real-estate investment is not very attractive , either . china is already a dominant global exporter , and it has neither market space nor political tolerance to enable it to sustain its past pace of export-led expansion . a significant china slowdown may already seem to unfold .
a well-educated citizenry is also vital if young men and women are to acquire the skills needed to perform a global and competitive world demanding today . the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational deficiencies and its lack of democracy . on the other hand , instead of making a breakthrough , what we see is a cycle of insufficient educational opportunity that leads to a lack of economic opportunity . the arab world faces major problems , one that can be met only with more flexible , democratic political systems . it is democracy that requires an informed citizenry able to question its own government .
with the kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council remained typically silent , whereas the europeans denounced everything and all involved . but the seeds for this bigger conflagration were being sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan calls . absent any coherent policy , conditions were ripe for a crisis . the president threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it did what he allowed . as the foreign-policy catastrophes take place , this was one for record-breaking books .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have underinvested in infrastructure . but the <UNK> ter-money scheme – a fanciful thought when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also be a radical departure for policymakers , requiring extensive exposure of caution to citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and rigid governance structures . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment amounts to a “ twofer ” – that boosts productivity and competitiveness in the long run and outstrip elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices they control . a less risky and time-tested route to stimulating demand would yield major increases in debt-financed investment . and such an approach would cement the notion that a central-bank policy is “ the only game in the town , ” relish elected government leaders of their responsibility for the pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices they command .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year by subsidizing the passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improved safety standards , or speeding up such trains . as a result , railways run out of money before they run out of plans . over the past 30 years , only 317 of the 676 projects sanctioned by parliament has been completed , and it is hard to see how the railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to fill the remainder of 359 projects . and , if not all of this were bad enough , india ’s leadership seems not to recognize the challenges that the railways are current . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , much less on-time advent , prime minister narendra modi talked of introducing bullet trains , just the most recent in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations .
a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity , including , say , michael bloomberg , the government-making innovation program , fuse corps , outposts results for america , social finance , third industries ’ capital partners , and usafks . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . in reality , there is a deep divide between the left-leaning “ blue ” cities and the right-leaning , ” red ” states , where many reside . cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement efficient policies . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” , is often assumed to be that state and local governments pursue identical goals .
for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the united kingdom and the u.s. , not to mention its native australia , for profit-seeking and political influence . we need to look beyond these figures to identify who truly is to blame fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the " public discourse " mainstream . murdoch ’s newspapers and broadcasters may , indeed , have patented the recipe for the deceitful , dog-whistle politics that have powered trump ’s rise and the brexit vote . only when identifying the sources of the odious virus now afflicting our democracies can we take any practical steps toward quarantine them . let ’s start with “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch .