another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain a central pillar of the world ’s energy for decades to come . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish that region ’s importance . do the region ’s crises stem from a lack of peace with israel ? unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , whose complexities defies analytical consensus .
china shares russia ’s concerns about america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , as well as its modernization of its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with russia and america both holds 18,000 of the world ’s current pinnacle of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible for any of the other nuclear-armed states to talk down their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the size of the us push further drastic cuts to theirs . with china taking that course , india , outside the npt , but with its 100 weapons of its own , feels its need to add to its own arsenal . that deterrence logic produces its snowball effect . and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to stay ahead of india .
two centuries later that was no longer the case : at the end of the nineteenth century , the median standard of living in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread – for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . how , exactly , did those accomplishments materialize ? what were the small differences that proved to matter so much ? the early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred , despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy . they arose despite a tripling of the population , imposing extraordinary malthusian strain on the economy ’s natural-resource base , and , despite mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for nearly a century of intensive war against france , power , with more than three times britain ’s population .
the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the wider global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to manage , rather than the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage the political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . may is flying into no haste to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though , facing her re-election next year , an increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says he ’s ) . may , who is getting lipped up as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of her politics strategy . her government has created the office of international commerce that will be held accountable to draft eu trade arrangements and the rest of the world ( the european commission previously had handled such arrangements ) .
whatever the imf ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment . venezuela has tried to finance itself with assistance from the people ’s development bank of china , imposing the type of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . the chinese have not required that venezuela do anything to increase the odds that it regains creditworthiness . instead , the cdb lends on covert terms , for uses its official and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , auto industry ( chery ) , auto industry ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . on paper , they merely demand more of their own oil as collateral , but at least for now .
one tv advertisement put it all about the low-rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign . it featured two clips of obama saying that he said , “ i have worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a bill , ” and “ what i ’ve done away with senator dick lugar . ” gone was not explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroying ” some of the world ’s deadliest , unguards , ” and “ “ what i was reaching out to senator dick lugar , ” a republican , to help close down loose nuclear weapons . ” with the us now subject to lugar , and the simultaneous exit of maybe republican moderates such as senator marco lugar snowe of the maine , who was prepared to place the national interests ahead of the partisanship , it is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify a further us-russia arms-control treaties , should they be negotiated . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty to replace the fragile international moratorium can not come into force without american senate ratification .
the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared a betrayal by the soviets . they called their crime izmena rodine – a treason prosecution of the motherland – and wedded this high moral language to smallness , such as leaving the country illegally . perhaps it will be imprisoned for aiding terrorists , but its betrayal generates little resentment at all . insecure states are , on its own , faster to sense acts of treason . secure states are prone to forgetting their sense of treason .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs similarly carried out by people – and even used to torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs and tranquilizers , ect has some instant organic effects . while ect ’s adversaries seem to believe that it does cause harm to the brain , this is hard to prove . and , whereas few people now get ect involuntarily , and in all cases of the consent one is sought , a vast and growing number of get antipsychotic drugs under bogus ones , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , alzheimer ’s patients , and a host of others whose lives are shortened by the cure with no effort to seek its consent . but , whereas ect rarely , if it has , causes clear clinical evidence of official harm and shown no progress in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore have recently failed to renew agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance to complete what would be the world ’s largest regional-free-trade agreement with the us . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , with ten other pacific rim countries , with a combined annual rate of about $ 26 trillion , or around 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout fits their aspirations ; talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for only about five proposed chapters of 29 , and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues to hit many millions of people , rather than always positively . but , given grave concerns that the tpp will fail to consider some important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . whether trade liberalization in general helps or harms the most vulnerable remains a complicated question .
late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to reach a consensus on open educational ideals and approaches , committing ourselves to them in the cape town ’s open-ended education declaration , officially released on january 22 . open education promises to transform the contemporary textbook manufacturing pipeline ( fsf ) , into a vastly dynamic knowledge ecosystem in perpetuity , usage , reuse , and upgrade . open education promises to transform the current textbook manufacturing pipeline , along with vastly dynamic knowledge ecosystem that is in perpetual state of creation , applied , reuse , and scale . open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ sedive ” materials , coupled with faster feedback loops that align learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvements . and opening up education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage the social interaction between students and teachers globally .
what , in his view , are borders to america ’s engagement ? under which conditions would an america use its capabilities ? nearly 70 years ago , when george orwell explored the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and written ” was largely the defense of the indefensible . massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification ” ; ” ” and ethnic cleansing involves “ population transfer . ” in other words , a hazy language is indispensable to obscure unsavory realities .
brussels – to many people in the west , china appears to have gone out of a country that has kept its cool head and maintains a low profile , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . but the point in reciting that litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it is to demonstrate a dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves as a “ normal ” ” ” power , the world conveniently forget , many hundreds of millions of people still need to pull themselves out of poverty . the chinese leadership seems to recognize this dilemma , and is not genuinely eager to throw itself into fierce competition with the west or with its neighbors . nor is it reassuring to recall that , up to now , china has steadfastly imposed sanctions on iran by investing in its major offensive military systems , and pillaging western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . putting the australian mining executive behind bars over ten years , wringing over google , holding back the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a mid-level official wag his finger at us president barack obama in the copenhagen climate summit is not about the best means of convincing partners of your constructive intentions .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than it is today . yet we succeeded in ameliorating it – not just normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . if that continues , europe will lose its clout in world affairs , and it will gradually become irrelevant . fortunately , the experiences of the 1980s suggest a way forward . this was accomplished primarily through a policy dialogue .
and as the economist david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. patterson , and john van reenen show , america ’s industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the strongest drop in labor ’s share of income . and once those firms are established and dominated by their chosen market , the new us economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive actions that bar any actual and potential rivals from onerous positions . but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age . this has elevated market concentration is widening the chasm between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and by those who employ workers whom robots replace ( labor ) . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has empowered the very large firms that have a diminished need for labor .
and whom are we to thank for all of this european progress ? just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not just by his political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to a european fiscal and political union . unfortunately not : the progress entailed almost exclusively by much-maligned financial-market pressure . do we owe this to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , above all that was when a “ merkozy ” strange couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? that is no cause for celebration , nor is it enough of celebration .
forecasts for the us economy have been revised downward substantially since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . demand remains depressed by the near-2008 overhang of the debt accumulated . and if multiple currencies all the depreciate vis-à-vis the u.s. dollar , the resulting effect on american manufacturing could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand and causing harm to the us word ’s exporters . indeed , this pre-2008 us debt has n’t receded ; it simply shifted in between sectors and countries . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the globalizing nature of the problem that we are facing .
paris – us president donald trump has been shaken by a transatlantic alliance that has long appeared unhinged . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete . ” the eu is about to crumble , it has predicted , with the kind of succession of the post-brexit countries of following the united kingdom . with trump , the world has become accustomed to a shocking statements and shameless reversals . the united states , its position suggests , would do much more than fine .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and an natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide array of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware , and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for low-carbon and hydrocarbon-heavy industry . all of these industries will benefit from the potential of enormous demand growth in large markets like china , africa , and india . but achieving the long-term growth led by high-tech industries requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including an openness to foreign core players . moreover , the social and political environment needs to be conducive to a high-tech workforce , providing an attractive quality of life , guaranteed civil liberties , and promoting entrepreneurship and creativity . those that have survived do so only barely , with vastly diminished output will go mainly to the ex-soviet market .
yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-run aggregate demand ( which means that there is little crowding out a private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right kind of public investment would most likely spur increased private-sector investment . the returns to public investment are affected by the presence or absence of complementary reforms , which differ from country to country . of course , the situation is not cut and run out of it . and there is some of the abuse potential , with expenditures still being misclassified as investment .
outside the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under assault for mismanaging the economy and american banking interests in forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , winning three general elections , is widely respected or resented for her austerity policies , rather than for her gender . the central issue in these tv programs is not that the principals play their leading roles . character , not gender , drives the narrative .
with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be prepared to raise the federal funds rate until at least 2015 . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance an ambiguous – and thus uninformative . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , which describes the fed ’s governors and the presidents of the regional federal reserve banks , has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level , until the unemployment rate has fallen to just 6.5 % , and may be expected to remain there or down even further . the fed warns that it might push up the federal funds rate if the projected annual inflation rate rises from its current level of less than 2 % to above 2.5 % . bernanke has stressed that the two policies are on separate tracks , and will react to different shifts in the us economy ’s performance .
throughout the last decades of the twentieth century , social inequality has risen threefold . and , with housing , health care , and education becoming less open now than it was in the late 1980s , his policy program focused on what should be done to shore up russia ’s full human capital , the key problem holding back russia ’s economy . prokhorov ’s observation that productivity in russia is just 6-10 % of that in the us , making it the economy struggles even after the price of oil , its main export , is peaking . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbate the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” afflicting many of its oil-exporting countries . in france , two million educated professionals recently slipped from russia .
it is significant that the united states ( ideally joined by other countries ) let iran know that any action to put itself on a field of nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . the world has erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake once again . harsh sanctions are to be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing post-jcpoa disintegration ; this , too , is not precluding the accord . what matters is that the united states ( ideally joined by other countries ) is letting iran know that any action to put itself in a field of nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing post-jcpoa escape ; this , too , is not precluding the accord .
short-lived exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . on the upside of the years ahead , rather than just the next few weeks , trump ’s election will almost certainly turn out to be bad for greece . for starters , the dollar has been shot down since the us election only because trump has pledged to monetize the deep tax cuts and ramp up chinese spending on disorderly infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military .
throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as a victory strategy . as home secretary , she has frequently won battles against other ministers simply by refusing to express one ’s views , or even to appear in meetings until the minutes , before a final decision , had to be made . but this lucky outlook may rests on one critical premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain essentially unchanged . europe ’s leaders could easily neutralize may ’s no-deal threat , and thus eliminate , any need to offer the concessions she demands . to do this , they need to understand the method behind may ’s horst strategy of indecision and delay .
finally , service productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of 90 % . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to an escalation of north korea ’s nuclear threat . and it ranks 58th for an institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy-fragility . the problem has been most acute during finance , real-estate , entrepreneurial services , and community and government services . in recent months , north korea has launched a series of ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , encouraging an exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of american slavery , reveals that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or certain groups . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state feed on resources , devoted to expanding russian influence across the non-russian republics . it is not sustainable for the peoples of smolensk oblast to live under a constitutional democracy , whereas the citizens of grozny and hakhumi are victims of wanshelling and annihilation . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and chechnya reinforces the reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy . thus , if russia continues along its imperialist front , its democracy will be jeopardized .
everyone chooses the point of view that fits it best . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with aircraft pilots who put an end to wwii , or a passive population , subjected to a hell of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting for the acts of `` innocents '' and `` good guys . '' at hiroshima 's museum itself , the role of victim was exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither japan 's government 's responsibility for the eradication and continuation of the war , nor of the inhumane treatment that the war prisoners of war or those suffering under japanese rule are recognized adequately . from the japanese perspective there was an `` account of victimization , '' made in which `` atomic bombs '' become a symbol of some form of suffering -- rather like the holocaust to jews .
the framework also should include the requirement of non-discrimination , ensure that we target our attention to the most vulnerable groups – not only the well-connected , the regime ’s literate , and the regime ’s favorites , rather than just the groups for which swift wins . the intended recipients of such action should be spelled out as rights-oriented . this removes the stigma of a charity , paving the way for the victims . accountability mechanisms must be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . instead of being helped , because they have dissatisfied needs , they are given remedies , because their legal rights are at stake .
the chinese are doing this in two ways . first , american firms wishing to do business in china are required to have a chinese partner , and the us sharing its technology with that firm . that compulsory sharing of technology leaves the us explicitly prohibited by world trade organization rules . the most important problem that the us needs to tackle is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that it is that the chinese steal american firms ’ technology and use it to help chinese companies compete with those same firms in china and around the world .
this struggle within islam pits pluralism against cleansings . it is ripping countries and regions , slavophiles people to travel far halfway around the world to join jihad and threaten to unleash increased violence against muslims , just as they do against christians , jews and others . yet the struggle within islam is neither a satisfactory nor a sufficient explanation of the state of anarchy that we are seeing in the region , such as south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained independence just over three years ago . even so , today ’s 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam and everything to do with a struggle along ethnic lines to control the country ’s resources . even though the world ’s newest country has emerged from a bitter civil war between christian muslims , the independence referendum has won 99 % support .
yet this proved to be more complicated than originally thought and , in a few weeks , the government simply recapitalized us instead . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed . with that one unilateral decision , iran has destabilized the rest of europe . hoping to prevent a run on the bank run , the iranian government has offered a blanket guarantee for all of its banking deposits . in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began on condition as a program whereby the us treasury department purchased problematic , largely a mortgage-based asset from financial institutions .
on the contrary , it demands a fundamental rethinking of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech . hate speech and other forms of dangerous and unlawful content must be attacked at the source . on one hand , heightened media literacy must be established on the part of consumers that must be taught , through young ages , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , and that is precisely what the netzfleeing attempts to ensure , social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that provide an incentive for the responsible use . but this is no quick fix , either .
first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy make such decisions directly , in a referendum rather than through their elected representatives ? in earlier times , a small city-state could be outright democracies ; but in larger countries , where communication has been slow , electing representatives to determine the many questions required to discuss and vote upon . and , increasingly so far , should british legislators regard their decision as being bound by the result of the june 23 referendum ? independently of what may be thinking about britain ’s exit from the eu can pose two other questions , one general and one particular to brexit . on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the vision of democracy itself , subject only to feasibility constraint .
what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ as long as american firms retain the capacity to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on demand , governments elsewhere than the united states will demand the same access , too will become emboldened to demand the same capability from their native firms . ” the american government will not object , given its own policies . a large coalition of tech firms and civil-society organizations has recently sent a letter to us president barack obama arguing against back-doors . in addition to “ undermining every american ’s cybersecurity and us economic safety , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” dislodged signers argued , “ imposing new vulnerability to weaken the encrypted products within the us would also undermine human rights and information safety worldwide . they regard the trump demand behind back-door calls by an automobile manufacturer for a defective engine .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the united states could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year year-old government , run by prime minister mahathir mohamad – suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal , following an online circulation of sex video involving the cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the result of the incarceration of people ’s justice party leader , anwar ibrahim . sadly , the latest us drama , like those preceding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems .
at a time of much hand-wringing over the fall of liberalism , the future of social-democratic compact , the rise of populist nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . but is politics really turning the page on the traditional right-left cleavage ? in fact , macron has pulled the leap he has made to the unknowns of the west ’s “ new politics , ” the terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between large center-right and center-left parties . as a democrat , he believes that deepening europe must go hand in hand with the evolution of a genuinely european political space . moreover , macron has signaled his intention to pursue a pan-european campaign for the upcoming european parliament election .
london – most pundits agree that the least bad path to handling north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive containment . making matters worse , however , recognized that the least bad us military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its dangerous neighbor , china ’s invasion , or regime change forced the us into china to raise one of its threats to launch one . that outcome , which would sharply shift east asian countries ’ strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not nearly as unlikely as most people seem to think . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason why it must be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners . in trumpian terms , this is the “ china first ” option that could help to make china great again .
spiekermann , a global actor with which the us conducts online identities for the purposes of targeted ads , government , and private supervision , or other nefarious ends , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began conducting interviews on personal data as the world economic forum in davos in may 2011 , ” ” she has told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the notion that personal data might be just like the ‘ new digital economy ’ ’ roll , which appears to be prevailing in the digital economy . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon that harvesting and use our data for any purpose one might think about , ” ” ” spiekermann contends . as a result , “ more than 1,000 companies now engage in a digital-information value chain that harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . “‘ data-management platforms ” such as acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles of hundreds of users .
but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and depress agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . in india , for example , extreme poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers face increased foreign competition . it gives the poor access to a broader diverse array of commodities , while providing firms with a more diverse choice for inputs . as a result , augmented trade can demand a hard adjustment in the short run . given the constraints on inter-sectoral labor mobility , which results from bottlenecks in skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes take place .
but it has also made clear that freedom of press means far more than letting journalists say in what they want when they want , and how they want . it also means holding out media owners accountable . kenyans need similar means of reflection today . for kenya , the nation ’s very public decline has come at a heavy cost . and yet , just when the country ’s embrace of democratic institutions might most benefit from such a mirror , those who historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to drop it .
simply lowering interest rates did n’t and will not , leading firms to invest more in such sectors . the 2001 recession combined an investment shortfall . the first is now ending ; the second -- the result of overinvestment in high tech and telecommunications , the sectors so significant in the late 90s boom -- may last significantly longer . the good news -- and bad -- is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is rapid enough that a significant share of hardware may become obsolete or even used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would be . there remains a significant capacity overhang -- such as the fiber optic lines , which remain dark , have yet to see any light pass through .
two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will be followed . that , at least , is the formal plan itself . as soon as the eu ’s bureaucracy and broad parameters for negotiations are established by early next year , may will formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . by then , the next general election will not be far off , giving the eu a second stamp of approval for brexit . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats in an sack , will have to come up with trump .
warsaw – in paris , western berlin , london , and rome , the “ spring ” of 1968 has been marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , polish students were protesting , but their cause was not the same as that of their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chanting “ ho , ho , ho chi minh ” campaign in solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against a smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ’s name , the young poles place flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in praise of the struggle for freedom by france , recently denounced the subversive and the soviets and its performance at the national dustbin in warsaw . these are mere features of western and eastern european students in that springtime of a rebellion of less than a few years ago .
crucially , figures are comparable across a wide class of middle – and lower-income countries , as well as those that are available for advanced countries as well . begin with , lustig argues in a recent paper with the reality of world income inequality . the average gini index ( rather than a weighted person ) in countries for which data have declined slightly during the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . preliminary conclusions that emerge from these studies will illuminate political debates – and likely annoy ideologues of both the right and the far left . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , running from the value of zero for perfect equality to 100-for perfect inequality ( one would receives all income ) .
the risk is that , until the reform measures take effect , the authorities may be relying on a short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation , and launching a structural vulnerability . likewise , while policies that encourage firms to increase their wages will lift household incomes and boost domestic consumption , wage increases may erode export competitiveness and choke off foreign-direct investment inflows . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth at an annual rate of around 7 % , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the final piece of the puzzle for china is one of realism . with rebalancing policies on their own unlikely track to raise average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity .
throughout history , despots used the same tactics . it is worth recalling that in order to join the eu , hungary had to live up to its stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . nowadays , those high standards are being systematically eroded have introduced a paradox for the eu . but orbán is doing so within the eu in 2017 . and , by closing down such a prominent us-supported institution , he can send a message that virtually no one standing up to him has won .
soros : the ecb is a well-functioning institution . soros : i debated this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism . so long as it behaves within its powers , germany lacks the determination to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something truly significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : do you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in the general philosophical crisis facing the west ?
indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate for productivity growth has raised a factor of four . in france , social mobility has not experienced any major change since 1991 . moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or increase poverty . macron ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s revolution is on the move . by moving away from the universal eligibility system from a university level to one that finds a more appropriate fit for every student after a high school , france stands to benefit from a greater measure of equality and greater social mobility .
but , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by lamenting corruption and punishing offenders . reforming brazil ’s public and private sectors can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . in addition to individual firms , whole value chains that contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp have suffered an abrupt operating and financial freeze . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of catching up and punished , regardless of their own social status . continued prosecution has already altered the calculus of any economic agent thinking about breaking public trust in private gain .
like the union races ahead , it seems that it has lost european citizens along the way . they have trouble seeing what are common to europe . even in the new member states , the enthusiasm for europe ’s democracies is cooling . under them , they do not feel part of the great whole whole whole . in fact , many are turning their back to the entire eu project .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his talk with russia ’s ambassador to the transition ( most likely to lifting the sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian businesses ) . moreover , vice president donald trump ’s son , mueller , jr. , alongside other top campaign executives , met in trump tower , with russia ’s intelligence operative with ties to the kremlin , who had promised “ dirt ” on clinton . another prominent escapee of ’s special counsel ’s hammer was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have exploited his white house role , particularly in us foreign policy ( in which he did n’t have the experience ) , to attend to his family ’s need for funding to pay off an enormous real-estate debt . another prominent escapee from ’s special counsel ’s dynasty was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have taken advantage of his white house role , particularly on foreign policy ( in which trump did n’t have the experience ) , to attend to his family ’s need for funding to divulge an enormous real-estate debt . it was widely expected that trump ’s son faced impeachment , as had even donald , jr. , saying , but barr ’s announcement ruled in further prosecution .
in fact , america and its allies simply do n’t like the results of arab democracy , which all too often generates established governments that are nationalistic , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s own oil interests . the american can not stop this downward spiral of violence in the middle east . pundits argue that arabs can not manage a stable democracy . hindu dealings and violence continue to govern the day after that . when ballooning populations in that direction , america simply ignores election results ( as it did in 2006 , when hamas won the large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world has been racked up against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , mainly in africa and south-asia . some 34 million more people live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; indeed , virtually all are marked for preventable deaths . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : the country ’s 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; six million more in asia . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of the world ’s adults are afflicted . the pandemic has claimed up to 19 million lives and creates more than 13 million such orphans .
as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized . fragile treaties that cover this are enforced mostly by the fact that very few nations can afford to capture the assets at a high enough scale . in most cases , game laws mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . airliners and fighter planes are operating in a “ control ” air close to the ground , while nationality is supposed to matter less the higher you go . the oceans belong to everyone except those near the landmasses steered there in similar ways to land-linked borders .
and our current era is not a fourth industrial revolution ; it marks the beginning of the digital age and an end to the industrial age entirely . in fact , few other trends pose an even bigger threat to global stability . almost every society has become highly dependent on the internet , the world ’s most important chunks of infrastructure , and also the infrastructure on which all other infrastructure rests . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will become the “ internet of everything . ” the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors already routinely overplay this process .
in chile , most soes survived , because central planners emphasized economic autarky without the cost . the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the decline in steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against capital-intensive economic sectors , including agriculture . china ’s pre-reform strategy has rejected the notion of a “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and the climate . jamaica , say , does not produce frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism delivers even more certain profits .
as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose program combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . yet even before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit , relative to its underlying debt-to-gdp position , was often rather restrained in comparison to the rest of the eurozone , as are that of other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . there are also some who believe that italy ’s fiscal and monetary framework has locks italy ’s fiscal and monetary framework in weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation , and high debt . still , the mainstream political parties that have governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . while the league party promises to cut taxes , the socialist star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of basic income .
encouraging foreign investment , or liberalizing everything , and after waiting to make things worse , does not work . for that , governments need to deploy both a carrot and the stick . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge in its economic development . an efficient strategy has to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional areas and weed to projects and investments that fail . a carrot is needed because there is large social value in discovering how big is needed , for example , that cutting rambunkers or the animal spirits of computer software , or that can be produced at low cost because this knowledge can orient investment from one another ’s entrepreneurs .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the impact of a cyclical rebound – an estimated 1.2 % annual growth in real gdp – would produce annual real gdp growth at a 2.6 % average annual rate , well above the 1.9 % average in the decade ending in 2009 . the effect of the us dollar ’s decline over the coming decades could be similarly significant . if the us trade deficit minus 3 % of gdp between now and the end of that decade were to decline , the implied rise in us exports and decline in us imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the us . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of the dollar ’s fall on us import prices , the increased cost of imports would cut america ’s real incomes by some 0.4 % per year .
the american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders in an equal proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of the foreign-exchange bonds . under the us court order , argentina might not pay holders of the new bonds unless it also paid holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary for making payment in argentina . it was that the ruling recently upheld for the supreme court . as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts in full or default on the new bonds . the holdouts have argued that as long as the new bonds are in full ( as they are ) , the equal treatment required that the holdouts should receive the full amount owed ( including not only interest but also principal ) .
this is important because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding global dominance . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling , complicated roughly the magnitude of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , a “ portland city ” “ that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical “ nautical “ road ” . ” to be sure , india is also somewhat suspicious of china ’s behavior . zhou bo , an expression fellow with the pla academy of military science , conceals that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally transform the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ strong yet benign ” power . but china is treading a carefully on its own that it can pursue its objectives without spooking its intended quarry .
likewise , the modi government has embraced the upa-proposed goods and services tax , stalled by opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s own gujarat ) . and it is reinforcing the national anti-terrorist effort , which modi has previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . indian citizens who thought that they voted for change are beginning to wonder whether the bjp simply reprised a upa government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s policies . yet sharif has been an honored guest at modi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s own newly affable leader . many modi ’s supporters in the media have already begun to decry the series on policy overtures that modi has made since his campaign .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in what was once called the “ war on terror , ” ” ” ” the need for a conference to discuss the security and military matters , combined with the charter of stability , has become urgent . we should look to the helsinki process to show us ways to retrieve what has been lost . a regional agenda must be crafted to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy comprising the policies of energy and water , arms control , and debt reduction . europeans ’s donations to the middle east remain great . amid all conflicts , human rights are among their first casualties ; and , in the middle east , the degradation of human dignity has now undone international conventions that were agreed over a number of generations .
so they did what they could to ensure that no amount of meaningful reform occurred during the crisis , with the knowledge that post-crisis momentum was given to reform , would dissipate . when the oecd proposed agreement to limit bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . at the same time , they were much more right than they recognized , but still properly . who , after all , could have anticipated that bill clinton would have followed the american president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestation ? for example , when the imf rightly suggested , after argentina ’s crisis that it needed better its debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , america vetoed the initiative .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered at victoria park to mark china ’s 28th anniversary of the violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s himalayan tiananmen square . as the southern china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the world ’s only looming public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . in reality , however , china now exercises a little near total control over hong kong ’s governance . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s show has reflected growing frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with their own . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago .
in order to pick goals and emulate them in a vision , they need not only to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the underlying point of their choices . against this backdrop , they need to be able to assess reality accurately . what is playing well with one group might not sit well with another . beyond proposing to be able to answer , leaders must get the question right . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also must be an effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces .
sixth , global sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . but , by making the business and investment climate worse , economic sanctions take their toll mainly to the private sector . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . if anything , power becomes ever more heavily centralized and concentrated as governments become ever more control supplies of the strategic commodities given the shortages that they inflict . finally , the penalties are supposedly effective at containing the effects of nuclear proliferation .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a highly interesting reference point for the analysts of the arab revolutions is not an appropriate reference point , as the region ’s main domestic and foreign order resulted from changing external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea of what they wanted : democracy , liberty , a market economy , and protection from a return to the russian empire . no power anywhere , within or without a region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for parts of it . they wanted the west ; its accession to nato and the european union was a logical success . nothing of the sort speaks to the middle east ’s crises .
new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar drill . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has begun the long march toward normalization . now , it has taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither for stimulus nor restraint to the american economy . the a majority of financial-market participants are witnessing this strategy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake for the us treasury to mislead .
the dangers for central banks stems from the failure to measure the implicit subsidies afforded to major financial institutions in any given budget . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of government debt , vulnerability to shocks is diminished . higher leverage generates macroeconomic risk , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees have to be honored . moreover , the buildup of risk in the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both difficult to measure and likely to materialize only after several years ( following the governor ’s term ends of office ) . de gregorio ’s views differ from that of many of his colleagues in other countries , for he sees obvious risks in allowing the banks to become larger and to apply whatever he calls “ clever ” strategies that require large amounts of leverage .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny at what russian president vladimir putin is up in syria , and why . what is known is that putin chose to come to aid from bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russia ’s bombings and missile are now roiling the country , on an array of armed groups that has faced fighting syrian government forces , which has given the regime the breathing space it has been trying to provide by russia ’s actions . as bad as assad ’s government may be , and as badly as it must respond to , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to a regime ’s collapse . much of this analysis , though narrowly focused on the short run and may be too harmful to evaluate his actions ’ likely long-run consequences .
using the year 2017 data , we discover that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidization ) cases lodged all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log value that goes to the vertical axis of the graph below ) tends to decline as the exporter ’s income level increases ( in show a log of value against a horizontal axis ) . the data pattern is reasonably clear : as a country becomes richer , there are far fewer anti-subsidization or anti-dumping cases against it . this could be because wealthier nations observe rules better , make it less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the latter . this may broadly be interpreted as part of the rules-based global trade framework . every blue dot on his graph represents a wto member economy , and a solid black line shows the international average ( drawn from all eu member economies excluding china ) .
the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences will be set aside : a triumph of pragmatism over ideology . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but that will probably be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . most bets are on britain ’s formal exit from the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporary ” left in the eu customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . if the brexit trajectory turns out that way , that will offer a perfect illustration of the twin character – and function – of politics . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words seem , in some way , to be rather wild , for they are the assault on thoughts upon unthinking , ” ” ” he wrote in 1933 .
the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : the former royals in the taunus region ’s rolling hills near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held their annual meetings with the middle east . on the opening night , germany ’s senior government minister , himself deeply engaged in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects displaying great sensitivity to israeli and palestinian concerns . the novelty this year was the presence of post-saddam iraq ’s representatives , among them an official from kurdish regional government , as well as a high-level shi’ite representative . europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians , and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east path of attention , stood at the very center of attention .
the final ten days of ramadan are i “ ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , ” during which worshippers gather and spend nights in the mosques and open areas . the final ten days of ramadan are i “ ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , ” during which worshippers gather and spend nights in the mosques and open-source . ” after sunset , a common program exists . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite an almost-full lack of coverage by local media outlets . and ramadan – now underway – is mobilization-friendly . observant muslims gather at deep sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers tawarih ( longer of prayers , including brief sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night prague ) , suhur ( another late-night prague ) , suhur ( another collective diet ) , and then morning prayers .
we broadening our consultation with both governments and other actors , cooperating more closely with both national and regional civil-society groups and the media , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sectoral associations . no country or region can truly seek full , broad-based economic growth without pulling the additional segments of its population and without giving a voice to all of them . with emerging democratic vacillation , it has partners with whom we can engage on governance issues . as africa ’s leading structural-finance institutions were established , the african development bank would support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social safety nets , and laying the foundations for a robust economic recovery . as the us finances its infrastructure and other infrastructure projects in the region , we would push for the integration of disenfranchised regions and rural areas .
even many of the poorest countries appeared at long last to be joining in , posting robust growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and increased fiscal revenues . reversing the asset and stock market in the us will undoubtedly dampen america ’s household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . the growing need for actions to correct global imbalances has been met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change ” a winning formula ? while the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seemed to think , they was peddled attention from the shaky fundamentals of newfound prosperity . the fate of the rest of the world depends on answers to the unfolding bout of financial turmoil .
manila – food scarcity is a distant memory for so many people in asia . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for about half of the increase in annual consumption of beef and poultry , and more than three quarters of the rise in fish consumption from now to 2030 . but as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could become the painful reality of life once again . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , with its population projected to grow to five billion by 2050 – an increase of more than 900 million . and , by that time , more than 60 % of global gdp will come from south and east asia .
this is not to say that america should necessarily engage with every issue . but , whether america is engaged or not , its policy is needed . syria is a case in point . its situation there , foreordained by each pundit around , has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . what america needs is a better explanation for its own people why america should engage more strongly with the middle east on its mounting problems .
at the same time , the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . london – a cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . everyone , from households to firms to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : the data . with attackers becoming increasingly agile and innovative , arming an increasingly diverse array of weapons is taking place at a faster pace , and with more sophistication than ever before . the issue , then , is how to accomplish it .
viewed from the perspective of such truths gives , for example , the european union ’s eastward enlargement , it seems , is highly desirable not despite but because it might lead to migration from the new member states to the old one . integrating migrants makes much sense ; but building sustainable conditions in troubled countries with the assistance of a generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then back on their own . in this way , more portugals and irelands can be created as the wealth of an already prosperous country sustained . that is not the only way forward . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least some more rational debate .
the costs are tiny : reaching 80 % of the world ’s $ 140 million or so undernourished children would require an annual commitment of some $ 60 million , while its economic gains would eventually amount to a clear $ 1 billion . in fact , providing iron and iodized salt is another top-tier investments . fortifying us products with iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per person , only to be $ 100 per person per year . for $ 286 million we could get iodized salt , and fortified essential food items to 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated at roughly nine times that sum . we know that iron deficiency results in cognitive and developmental challenges .
a number of projects , from airport to university campuses , benefit more than decades of return , which implies that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited effect on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policymakers . the largest scope for renewed private-sector investment is in capital-intensive industries , in which the government has a major presence as a regulator . even if european countries were to close only about 10 % of gdp in capital-stock per worker at the subsector , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment – offsetting a € 354 billion gap in private-sector investment from 2007 to 2011 . standardization and liberalization in the european union ’s telecoms have underpinned 9 % growth in value-added and productivity in that period , compared to 6 % in america .
first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . as a result , frictions between growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , and include hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in an emerging group – have greatly diminished . those who seem to believe that this will , they typically rely on three arguments , each calling for some qualification . indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades , and climbing to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the psychotic differential dropped to 2.5 last year , and is projected at just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the underlying growth differential will remain as low at it today .
making matters worse , a sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still incomplete balance-sheet corrections in parts of both corporations and banks . under the eurozone ’s latest reforms , the principle that those who assume some risk should be liable for it was replaced with a common liability principle , which implies financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in the event of a crisis . in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards has introduced a high degree of moral hazard , creating perverse incentives for governments and market players alike . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all of those advocating risk sharing .
but 2004 also marked a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , which sought to side with his favored presidential nominee , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by endorsing massive vote manipulation . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failures brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , opting for a third presidential term in russia in 2012 . the failure dealt a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . the hoped-for pause with the past did not materialize , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any severe reform agenda . creating a new eurasian union was a cornerstone of his platform .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 hit seven years of capital scarcity . the third cycle of fdi inflows came in from 2004-2011 , to persisting even through the global financial crisis . are a few data points and the biblical sloting enough to take the 15-year cycle hypothesis seriously ? if history repeats itself , now is the time for a third “ sudden stop ” of ” capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps , as long as we have some sort of causal theory that might explain such periodicity to international capital flows , we may now be the time for a third “ sudden stop ”
a responsible fiscal state has emerged from this grand compromise . despite huge costs – more than half of fledgling government expenditures in the early years went to debt servicing – the economy shook off its 1780 ’s depression and entered a growth boom . they , in turn , would secure the votes for the federal government both to assume and repay states ’ defaulting debts . hamilton ’s challenge was both easier and harder than ours is today . both jefferson and madison were unwilling to want the countries ’s capital to be in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support shifting it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland .
the digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and the government . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower scams rates , cut customer onboarding costs , foster financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers . digital ids could even establish a means of controlling data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems . digital id could play a much more expansionary role in how individuals and institutions interact . they can also spur development , by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined worker authentication , resulting in higher labor-market participation .
but , if the revolutions were aborted , its leaders would be unmasking like empty windbags . the first revolution of 1917 overthrew czar nicholas ii and generated a provisional government that spearheaded the socialist leader alexander kerensky to turn out to have a transitional blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” that had been playing by the old order to continue cheating employees and peasants . but the second revolution – which had brought both lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal . if the revolution continues apace , chastened by incompetence , disillusionment , savage zied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications for individual institutions as it handles them . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial autonomy for its monetary-policy role . below it does , there is an opportunity to establish a unified banking supervisor , combining the functions of the currency ’s comptroller , the office of thrift supervision , and the regulatory functions of the regional turning point . in a perfect world , one would add in state-owned banking regulators , but i recognize that , at this point , i began embodying trample on the cherished features of the american constitution ! the crisis has demonstrated the need for this plain speaks to it .
the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold the business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent rich . asian policymakers need to recall how they have successfully developed their manufacturing sector through competition . in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers might be crushed as wal-mart enters the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . for , say , a government can impose zoning laws , help small retailers find specialized niches over the market , or provide skills training to displaced workers .
toulouse -- when history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punish a policy with an sadistic twist , it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises have reflected the vulnerabilities of a regulatory system , founded on lessons learned from previous crises . today , ’s crises are no exception ; nor will their coming . the postwar system of financial regulation was written on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we thought that the main reason that banks fail was that depositors panic , not that the main reason that depositors panic is in the danger of failing .
to china , the biggest prize is a bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an agreement would be a boon for xi , because it would represent the american vote of confidence in china ’s struggling economy . yet the outlook for the trump administration is precarious , at best . on practical terms , a us-china trade deal would make it easier for chinese firms to invest and operate in american firms , and increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs convincing , too .
this is particularly interesting because it fundamentally dismisses one of the more harharrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in his graphic detail , gore demonstrated just how a 20-foot rise in sea-level rise would inundate a lot of florida , shanghai , and holland . the report also debunked the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming might make the gulf stream cut , turning europe into another siberia . the ipcc reports make it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude have no basis in life in science , though clearly worried people , and perhaps would win , gore a academy prize . the ipcc , for its part , makes it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude have no basis in science at any time , although clearly horribly worried people , and perhaps would win , gore a academy prize .
it is important to note that china can still reduce its bilateral trade surplus with any particular partner , even if its overall surplus rises . for starters , lowering the cost of us imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and their access to products that can improve the quality of their life . likewise , chinese firms will enjoy lower costs on foreign-made components and facilities , thus boosting their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers may end up increasing their exports . finally , internationally imported expo will complement china ’s other market-driven measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms . and , while importing expo expands rather than decreases , a country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits .
exploiting the project of “ energy weapon , ” though , is not merely a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russia ’s foreign policy . seen against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that an empire of the “ new russian dream ” should be built through purely economic means excluding all forcible actions against other nations . throughout the west , many question whether russia will continue using natural gas as a means to lift its economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgian , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet countries has been based on the doctrine of the “ liberal empire , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which claims that russia ’s major government-owned and private firms should assume control over key economic actors across the territory of the former soviet republics by acquiring their own assets . naturally , the pivotal role in this model is the delivery of power to post-soviet nations .
cambridge – the united states congress is nearing a major corporate tax reform . opponents of the us law emphasize the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . under trump , i dislike budget deficits and have long warned of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i am convinced that the economic benefits resulting from a corporate-tax shift will outweigh the adverse incentive effects of increased us debt . the best-performing plan reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the upper quartile of any oecd country to one of the lowest in the oecd – and enables us companies to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries without ever paying additional american tax .
these moves are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand ; but they do end up fueling a surrogate , lower-grade currency war . to see why , consider the case of japan . we need a group of major economies – so-called “ g major ” – that announces monetary policy in a coordinated fashion . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to promote some inflation and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past 6 or seven years . but in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would respond soon by injecting liquidity , spurring the bank of japan to act once again .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson affirms this democratic dividend . their starting point is the observation that , in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged just 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to just 2.5 % under republicans . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the mismatch is even larger . the divergence in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is both consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly well above the threshold for statistical significance . the results are similar even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or for the first few quarters – of the president ’s term to his predecessor .
indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on the ludicrous charges of “ fomenting crime . ” venezuelans would like nothing better than to be those who decide their own destiny , but the democratic means of doing so are being denied them . it is merely as preterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators just the same thing . terms in office have expired for prosecutor-general , members of the national election commission , as well as supreme court justices , but no successors named , because maduro remains unwilling to negotiate with the opposition , and lacking the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing . it would grind to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government thunderbolt to a mad man and bear it without outside solidarity .
true , far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that the nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and socializing society . still , in the face of widespread economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point at hand . classical socialism is the progeny of liberal internationalism to say that it is a sub-creed ; essentially , it knows no national frontiers . it is easy to see why .
london – “ what if that will be ‘ as good as it gets ’ ’ ’ ” ? jack nicholson asks , because he walks through his psychiatrist ’s waiting room in the eponymous movie . many are now wondering whether china ’s current gdp growth rate will be as good as it gets for a long time to come . determining the validity of such fears requires an understanding of what drives china ’s economic slowdown . at its recent meeting of the g-20 finance ministers in shanghai , the participants posed a lot of the same question – and not solely with the medium-term expectation of weak global growth .
not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate that they have little interest in getting cordoned off to conflicting and competing ethnicities , nation-state , or religious identity . that agenda is at least in direct contradiction with the interests of global capital , and of governments that have grown accustomed to functioning without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protestors ’ agendas , from occupy wall street to occupying moscow , gain further coherence . overwhelmingly , they want a simple democracy , as well as an economic self-determination . the internet is also disseminating the hardest-to-reach templates of what true democracy looks like – instantly and globally .
that is an alarming prospect for all . but three of the european union ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all run large debts and annual deficits , which signal even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . when interest rates rise , as surely as they must , the costs of servicing the debts will require higher taxes , harming economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . now , firms fear that rising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . a rising level of the national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment .
the economy ’s fastest growing sectors since the late nineteenth century were those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” often involving the spread of information and entertainment business , the activities in which jews were particularly prominent , from publication to vaudeville and from movies to commercial sports . they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to freighter shops . they also tended to do poorly in sophisticated occupations – such as medicine , law , and accounted-ledger technologies – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews were a long minority subject to discrimination is sometimes given as a justification for their tendency to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and occupations . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed under conditions of market competition .
to help scale up the development and finance of sustainable infrastructure in low - and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing the sustainable infrastructure of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . crowding in private capital will therefore be the key to closing the investment gap . crowding in private capital will therefore be the key to closing the investment gap . in order to support the scale of the development and finance of sustainable infrastructure in low - and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework developed by the one planet lab working group on financing the sustainable infrastructure of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . the framework , called “ vision for an ecologically responsible transition ” – infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) – aims to help unlock the sdg investment pipeline and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opens the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide .
in this stirring knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb , and a quantities of new dynamite are being piled throughout the region . without us support from china and india , america ’s middle eastern politics can no longer succeed ; but that support is given only a half-heartedly , if at all . today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and in sharp contrast to 2001 ) , america seems crucially compromised . moreover , the new superpowers , with their own sets of interests – namely , china and india – have come around on the international scene . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , with europeans neither willing nor able to contribute any significant amount of aid .
the creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) generates the whole world . skeptics maintain that competition and technology wreak havoc on the harmony of society ; that it creates inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy is hard for those who sit back on their backsides and live at the expense of stockholders or taxpayer . but this is no longer the american story of the last generation . true , it gives the chance to be energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
dartmouth researchers have found that of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the u.s. , testing not to help the tune of 120,000-134,000 of the afflicted women . either the cancers were growing so slowly that they failed to pose a problem or would have acted successfully if they had found themselves clinically next year ( or so aggressive that little can be done ) . indeed , even a mammogram ( close to 40 million are administered annually in the u.s. ) that detects cancer do not necessarily save a life . the next step in reversing the spread of cervical cancer screening came last year when un researchers at the dartmouth college london institute on health policy announced that the costs of childhood screening for breast cancer were often minimized and that the benefits were far overstated . the chest x-rays for both lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer receive a similar , albeit less definitive , critique .
a new study argues that there now stands at around a 70 % chance that the world population will not peak this century , at an estimated 80 % chance that it will reach 9.6-12.3 billion by 2100 . this matters , because a rising population may prove to be an even bigger problem than was previously thought . sub-saharan africa – persistently the region ’s poorest people – will be its principal engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this growth engine here : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for more than 215 million women worldwide – a big share of them in africa , who want to escape the pregnancy will cost an estimated $ 3.6 trillion annually .
at the same time , the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . state-owned enterprises ( soes ) should be free to offer , too , but they should receive no favors . moreover , unlike the mexican , china , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . unlike the mexican , china , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . this is the struggle for power , not economic justice or a better life .
this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to be acknowledging it . on russia since his georgian invasion , obama , and his bunkers , joe biden ( who was the first nato member to visit georgia after the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continued russian crusade against it . mccain wants , by contrast , to punish russia by such actions as by expelling it from the g-8 . such actions may ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgian people ’s survive as an independent democracy . moreover , even after outrage in georgian , there are issues of communal interest in common cause – such as energy , climate change , and iran – on which the west and the kremlin must cooperate .
following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are on a trajectories toward independence , dragging yemen toward yet another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has plunged the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . in yemen , meanwhile , the possibility of an adequate supply of central authority is slipping away as the country confronts a number of seemingly intractable problems – from domestic divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and an ailing economy . in yemen , meanwhile , the possibility of an adequate supply of central authority is slipping away as the country confronts a number of seemingly intractable problems – from domestic divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failed economy . the south remains lawless , whereas the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to the ill-conceived government in tripoli .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had the responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . many were committed to introducing austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies . but that consensus turned out to have been short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and thus needed to reverse it . this turned out to be some for some time to have been a grave mistake . in europe , in particular , governments were bailed out for their heavy debts , even when private-sector debt , rather than public borrowing , caused the meltdown .
this means welcoming migrants and young minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabled people , and empowering citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to make decisions and the knowledge to make their proper decisions . likewise , the socialist international ’s goal is a world governed not by free markets but by freedom of people . we must fight the exclusion of our own political parties , just as we struggle out of exclusion in our societies . in pasok , the greek socialist party leading , we are undertaking far-reaching reform on this front .
in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . indeed , the us may be destroying the eu altogether . shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage over manufacturing in general and in petrochemicals generally . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the us banking and household industries have made some progress in deleveraging .
this split attitude meant that china had tended to overreact in ways as contradictory as it were impassioned and unpredictable , especially when its own pride was piqued . nothing provoked a more muscular post-mao reaction came to power than the demeaning prospect of feeling incapable of resisting foreign predation . nothing involved a more muscular us reaction after mao came to power than the demeaning prospect of feeling incapable of resisting foreign predation . yet , through the mid o’70s , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface has been emblazoned with this motto : cramming with american imperialism and its running dogs . even as the chinese felt brutalized by foreign interference and us domination , they also came to admire america for its own democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help it .
third , we face steeply rising fossil-fuel prices , as developing countries ’ growth fueled demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil and gas are depleting . shale-gas wells deplete a far more rapid price level than conventional fields do . and they are environmentally pious to boot , to boot , for example , that we can help produce more fossil-fuel-based energy infrastructure . a certain extent , we can find more fossil-fuel consumption , but at much higher cost and at much greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste volumes , pollution , and other harm . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution has plenty of hype – resembling past gold rushes and stock bubbles .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is slightly more than a month away , but already the campaign seems to have been with the us forever , rolling implacably ahead , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even substantial – movement in the polls . in the meantime , labour seems hoping for a who-knows-what to turn the tide , while keeping its collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party threatens to sweeping the governing council . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be . support for the two main contenders , the labour party and the ruling conservative party , seem stuck in a low to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that the us government ’s track record on the us economy will convince undecided voters to break at its favor late in the campaign .
the other insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role of consciousness in our decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many of the choices our brains tend to make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush may have chosen to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein , for a variety of reasons : its strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even its competition with its father . the majority did not involve weapons of mass destruction ; it was n’t even engaged in weapons of mass destruction . is this really an american tradition not interested in what will happen to others ?
geographic location also matters because such things as distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil obstruct economic growth in the developing world . other factors , in addition to trade policy , too , matter . fiscal restraint as reflected in low levels of government consumption relative to income growth is also important . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protection from corruption is among the same important factors in spurring economic growth . yet this makes implementing open trade policies all the more decisive because they are the best tools at the disposal of the wrong cards that nature sometimes addresses .
durham , north carolina – my day begins with a cup of coffee and ends with hot chocolate . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and medicines , including my daily 81 optimality of aspirin . a fashionable orchid enlivens my study , and , through my window , catches a glimpse of my green garden . in short , my life , like everyone ’s , is enabled , enriching it , and spreading through a wide variety of plants and their derivatives sets . but the biodiversity upon which we all depend is under threat , as human activities devastates ’ forests and other plant-rich habitats .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a potential settlement freeze is only the latest round in a cycle that has recurred all the time in the preceding 40 years that it would seem mundane if only as dangerous . in the end , both world pressures subsides and a freeze fail to materialize . not surprisingly , the peace process becomes the joke , while that happens . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble even more energy to expand onto more palestinian land , to build more exclusively jewish settlements , and to destroy more arab homes before the so-called “ freeze ” comes to effect .
san francisco – there is a big gap between the us federal reserve ’s mandate for maintaining “ stable prices ” – as enunciated in the us federal reserve act and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . so , how is it that policymakers have been able to replace the latter for the former ? the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten or more of ten or even 100 years from now . after a hundred years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . on the other hand , when a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the equivalent items that $ 100-could purchase today will cost the us $ 122 by the end of this decade .
skill/biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . as a liberal myself , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them as a policy ultimately undermines the interests of migrants . yet , once again , one must review the amr trade-off . with the vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether the newcomers who are desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or by no means accepted at all . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of migrants , but also leads to a brain drain from country to need highly skilled workers .
we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when the public is apathetic or frightened , but also when a apparent stable advanced guard , like powerful political parties that elects and controls , is missing . as a result of russia now confronting a situation in which a presidential election is the only political issue . instead , the reforms were decreed from high levels , lacking any grassroots support – and thus with no durable durability . such a purely method is a wellspring of authoritarianism . all of us have been direct appeals to wall street and the masses , rather than to encouragement of a genuine social consensus .
likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is just 13 % . to be sure , the youth-unemployment ratio of 13 % , or 19 % , is not grounds for complacency . but , while the eurozone ’s youth-unemployment rate has risen in absolute terms since 2009 , its gdp has remained the same ( albeit both substantially above its pre-2008 level ) . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with tariffs of 11 % , 12 % , and just 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , and germany , respectively . and an eurozone-wide ( 20.8 % ) figure far exceeded a 8.7 % ratio .
that link could be a direct one if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or , indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , its special drawing rights , became a favored reserve asset , because the renminbi now exists in the sdr currency basket . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambition , though the notion has never gained much traction . alternatively , it might eventually be that china might become a new supplier of reserve assets . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve assets may subside . in this scenario , delivering a reserve asset would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate-tax rate , from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidized infrastructure investment and increased us military spending , and america seems likely to face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and vast short-run demand growth . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which the us remains an important export market . but it is the peripheral countries – which probably will benefit the most . with the american economy already operating at near full capacity ( with unemployment at more than 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger american dollar – will be needed to meet that demand .
princeton – for the past century , the economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and the market . that old debate lies at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . does controlling the state in the sense that it sets a limit on governments ’ capacity to borrow ? or does a state take charge when the market has failed to perform fully on socially useless terms , such as fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? the same question is dividing american politics in the us lead-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
a second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start defeating the europeans at its own game by reviving its automobile industry or by making it a mere wine to the rival french and italian manufacturers . this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that it would be better for the uk on its own , and that brexit would hurt europeans far more than it is hurting britons . british negotiators would then respond to eu negotiators ’ domino-theoretically logic by trying to shape the process as painful as possible for the rest of the eu .
the excess domestic demand that has underpinned this evolution is now gone , permanently . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , might have helped the tide economies over while structural adjustment and widening competitiveness in the tradable sector continue . but , on its own , stimulus is not the answer . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic expenditure can rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not return to the zero bound . otherwise , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself once the stimulus came to an end .
if america 's war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now , from this narrow point of view of russian interests , while the resulting mess will pose problems for america and its traditional allies rather than for russia . so america 's objective of regime change in baghdad looks none too bad , even if it can not broad popular support . the contrast between russia 's manipulation of the iraqi annexation of iraq and iran is telling not only that putin 's infamous pragmatism , but that of the sophistication and adroitness of his policy . this contrast also reflects a fundamental difference between iran , the historic national state of nations and the artificial form of creation that is iraq . for president putin makes sense to remain on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and finally to be repaid later in the form of american influence over the successor iraqi regime 's repayment of its russian debts .
indeed , throughout yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's attitude towards its own minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . so far , president kostunica 's rejection of even more discussion of the establishment of internationally indicted serb war criminals in trial is not a matter of mere hopeful men here . no matter how badly milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo of ethnic albanians were sincere popular among serbs . kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia 's " democratic credentials " derives primarily from his knowledge that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is a structural rather than a single man . most kosovars find speaking to serbia on improved relations hard , if serbia passing some “ de-nazification " process .
but there was never any conclusive proof that megrahi was involved in the lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that it was convicted on the use of sham evidence , in which case a former cia bribed witnesses . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and surging investment ) , relations remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding . in the end , the economic sanctions forced qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi , just as another suspect , mhima , who was later acquitted – faced with the scottish tribunal of camp zeist in holland . moreover , libya has formally accepted responsibility for the bombing , agreeing to pay over $ 2 billion to victims of ’ families , and to abandon its weapons of mass destruction program .
this experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy of sciences , a hub for talents development that aims to help fill the industrial-skill gap in nigeria and beyond . such initiatives are key to aligning education with economic development and boosting prosperity . without them , the continent has more to experience rising unemployment , spreading inequality , social disorder , and , eventually , conflict and chaos . by 2040 , africa will have an estimated 1.1 trillion working-age citizens – more than , say , india or china . with the right educational , skill , and job opportunity act , this immense workforce could deliver fast and sustainable economic growth for the entire region .
the violence against women in afghanistan persists , for a variety of reasons . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that presumes a women ’s inferiority . second , there is a powerful political incentive to purge women ’s rights . as a result , women are deprived of their fundamental rights and liberties , not to protect them . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cut down on her nose and ears as he fled .
initially , events played out as planned . annual gdp growth leapt from , say , -1.6 % in 1993 to above 4 % in 1997 , and stayed around until after 2007 . during greece ’s period of accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both inflation and the fiscal deficit crashed fairly quickly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment chosen up ; and the government put in place an ambitious liberalizing reform package . but entering europe ’s ’s ’s ’s economic and monetary union was meant to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as increased productivity and strengthened competitiveness .
the momentum toward a hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . the danish shipowners ’ association and the arctic expedigruten are each of the players calling for tough regulation or outright prohibition . other shipping firms have highlighted the need for regulation to maintain a level playing field . momentum toward a hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean-arctic alliance to launch its commitment to the arctic .
in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i have met ; another two – former united nations secretary general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also either african or african-american . john f. kennedy was a bit of both . he was doing one great thing in his history : orchestrating the cuban missile crisis . and his gift for motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination on cementing a powerful legacy . in africa , not much had changed from the death of south african president nelson mandela to combine the courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance .
melbourne – the renovation of cuba ’s diplomatic relations with the united states has unlocks new prospects for the island ’s ’s economy . some steps , including the dismantling of the american-led trade embargo , are prohibited by the helms-burton act , adopted by the us congress in 1996 . but restoring cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s more than 40 original members . it participated in much of the tentative planning for the 1944 bretton woods conference , and it had an active delegation there .
it goes without saying that academic or engineering expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure the success of government officials . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make dreadful policymakers , owing to a lack of managerial , management , or other interpersonal competence . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians became disenfranchised , or deadlocked . and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents , were not even intellectuals . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be reelected , either because their term in office was limited in advance or because they were better known to prefer silent academic life .
following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated the 11 countries ’ coastlines , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injured , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – the world ’s 168 governments have agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan to reduce disaster risk . today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vitally important to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – are being advanced without adequate regard for disaster risk . in this sense , climate-change projections should call into question policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate perceptions about exposure and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that none of this is like a natural disaster ; there are only a catastrophic impact on natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . in the absence of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the decades ahead .
while that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ make clear steps to enhance nationally determined donations by 2020 , ” ” ” ” ” it offered a platform for a new generation of climate and nature advocates . yet nature-based solutions have continued to receive relatively less attention , and even fewer financing . fortunately , there is a may , beginning with change . two years ago , researchers from the nature conservancy and its partners released new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york .
indeed , iranians ’ ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the iran nuclear deal will remain unchanged . moreover , he will have to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , which makes it clear that iran does not endorse a shia liberation movement . just a couple of weeks ago , in reality , the us administration was obliged to admit that rouhani was meeting his part of the iran nuclear deal . to ensure that iran continued progressing toward international engagement – thereby protecting a nuclear deal for which trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s administration will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . but trump will not make it an easy option for rouhani .
the hope that turkey is finally tapping its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters . the mainstream , independent media are not even reporting the conquests for fear of provoking a government or gülen network . these cases will ultimately collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend far beyond suffering the hundreds of innocent individuals locked up on a bogus show . ludicrous cases continue and more people are being dragged down .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged aid to russia . but his vague language has reflected a greater hesitation that will probably persist until the crisis is over . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that will claimed , “ prevent short-term balance of payments pressures , provide some semblance of mutual reinforcement , and further enhance financial stability in the future . ” in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and a fledgling brics institutions have turned against russia . but russia is unlikely to draw upon this emergency credit line in its current crisis .
at the same time , they will try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and remodel its production facilities to lower-wage countries . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainties , confounding debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . at the same time , they will seek to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and to re-use its production facilities to lower-wage countries . from stymieing the medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying the needed overhauls in the us labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep us economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would consume away at potential output as well . in other countries , the causal direction will run mainly from economics to politics .
paris – the riots that hold the rampaged across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into georgia papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction rejecting all accommodation with either the european union or the modern economy . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties throughout europe . that the traditional left has been so inert in the 1970s of today ’s economic crisis is more than strange . in countries where they hold power , like spain , they are now extremely unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray , like germany ’s christian social democrats , despite their being part of the ruling grand coalition .
they are more tolerant of human frailties and have a more refined appreciation of the art of seduction . the reaction to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounters with the african chambermaid at the new york city hotel have had very little in common , except for one thing : time , the cultural conflict has been invoked misleading in a misleading form . whatever happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director and its accusers , the fact that he was arrested and pardoned in front of the press as a crime suspect has been much criticized in france . one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the apprehenance was typical of american puritanism . the french , he predicted , were initially from latin culture , to have a more liberal understanding of its sexual behavior .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
yet caught in the sights of a gun barrel , no one – not even the courageous men and women who camped out in their hundreds of thousands in snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with any degree of certainty whether these changes had wrenched ukrainians from their grip on fear and apathy . nobody ever doubted that ukraine had , in its twelve years , vastly changed in its twelve years of autonomy . so far , the success of their defiance shows the force of the thought that overthrew bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands . they have reason to feel proud as well . self-confidence among the governed and prudence among rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom ; and they can never again be diverted in the us homeland .
while previous prime ministers , like menachem begin , and yitzhak shamir , were not averse to lecturing , they lacked the strategic cunning . israeli prime ministers supposedly come in two varieties : heavily hedged eastern european men and brutalized military officers who speak a good game before acquiescing to america ’s most recent or international demands for concessions , talks , and assistance . his tireless disregard for israel ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic environment , its security demands , its red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk of reopening negotiations , which trump is immediately rejecting palestinians who , like him , are worried about stirring weakness . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east is out against the fact that of the obama administration , in thrall to his collapsing romantician with moderate islamists , and his devoted followers among jewish americans . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , collusion , and often enrages americans .
in practice , by definition , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” for example , the british public did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , only a year later , his vision , faith , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ ’ ’ anxiety after france ’s fall and dunkirk evacuation . likewise , followers tend to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a powerful need for change , often in the context of a personal , organizational , or social crisis . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus shifted from winning the war to providing for a welfare state , churchill voted from office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; the changing of followers ’ needs did .
this combination of legal guarantees and changed economic circumstances helps to mobilize a majority in favor of the treaty . at the same time , the government has secured the eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , would be enabled by ireland to retain a permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space , in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . but at the same time , the picture remains far from adjectly clear-cut . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority , from 62 % to 23 % , with more than 15 % of voters undecided .
to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose that the eu ’s high representative for foreign affairs and security is given a right to object on safety grounds for the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . the solution is not to meddle in the rules of competition , but to cede those in eu security , some of which tell us in the decision-making process . eu member states already have such practices and so should the eu . finally , the eu must do more to develop its financial toolkit and to promote europe ’s international use . the eu ’s decision to reject a merger , or to authorize an investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor , might make an economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles .
a fresh passed bill – explicitly aimed at israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mbs ’s rejection of disloyalty to the state . ngos that have focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . for israel , we have always had a strategic asset for democracy , for a democratic israel that was a natural fit in the western alliance . yet the more israel embraces the putin-inspired practice remains its connections to its strategically rearguard action in the west . whereas the west has lost no time in imposing un sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it has punished israel ’s preoccupation with palestinian lands .
sir romano prodi , the eu 's president and italy 's former prime minister , responded to president bush 's most recent statements by saying that “ if one wishes to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth , and not just the american industry . " this " approach to the responsibilities of a national supreme leader declared bluntly and candidly , to force the us to consider a fundamental ethical issue . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their own citizens ' interests , and to what extent should they concern the welfare of men everywhere ? but the question is not merely one for those aspiring to be world leaders . in kosovo , restricting intervention to aerial bombardments has made this strategy a total success : nato forces suffered not by a single casualty in fighting ; at 3 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians were killed .
in europe , the kremlin has been pursuing a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of a strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly out-maneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with a fragile but enduring ceasefire , and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk significant political autonomy – allowing russia to “ entrench ” the conflict near the eu ’s borders . moreover , the delayed implementation of the key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine is plain evidence that , at present , russia dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . increasingly , ukraine seems to be becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – a russia-turkey foreign-policy specialty .
thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the greatest headache of every developing country ’s finance minister nowadays is efforts to keep its or her country ’s currency from going too far against the dollar . but has that ever come to speak out , quite how hard americans have to work to make everyone else look good ? when was the latest episode to have come ? chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , all are fighting off capital inflows from investors seeking an exit as the dollar collapses . with the us dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everyone laments america ’s spendthrift ploys .
new yorkers – for one thing , hurricane harvey has left in his wake upended lives and vast property damage , estimated at some at $ 150-180 billion , in the us . but the rainfall that inundated texas coast for the better part of one week and a hurricane on a flight from south florida also raised deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and policy . it is ironic , of course , that an event so associated with climate change would have occurred to a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where the us economy depends so heavily on those strongly in the fossil-fuel industries that drive global warming . to be sure , no particular climate event can be dealt with directly the increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but researchers have long predicted that such increases would boost not just average global temperatures , but also weather variability – and especially the formulation of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
the eu was founded on a mechanical notion that interdependency would reduce conflict . by linking european means of production together – first through the european coal and steel community and , later , through the eu ’s common market and europe – the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely that a war of choice would no longer be an option . rather than banding together , every new challenge has fragmented the eu into ever-smaller group . pro-europeans need to engage in the sources of discontent and rethink the forms that are used to express the european ideal . the eu has distributed its north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis has divided east and west .
in nigeria today , a key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but rather who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight-knit military dictatorships , that is really there for real progress . unfortunately , it is not necessarily the president ’s job . attempting by obasanjo ’s supporters to urge the national assembly to amend the constitution in order to enable obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms has met a solid wall of opposition . government and commercial activity practically ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , in their alliance with politicians and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s aid allies to thwart the proposed bill .
if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement – between apparently conflicting moral theory – than we all might think . parfit ’s response to this line of argument results him to make for an assertion that is perhaps even bolder in his defense of objectivism in ethics . he regards three leading theories on what the us ostensibly supposed to be , one deriving from kant , one from the sociocke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers , john rawls and t.m. scanlon , as well as one of bentham ’s utilitarianism , he argues that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised to be defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism that is a theory in the same broad family of utilitarianism . defenders of each of these different theories are in parfit ’s vivid signaling that climbing an equal mountain on separate sides .
this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding up coffee , both the object of legislation in recent years . rather than csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . one might also argue for csr on the grounds that it asks me to be a way of “ passing the buck ” – evading a personal responsibility for doing good . with the rise of the corporate firm , large family firms have generally disappeared . but this does not mean that it is the company that is the right entity to engage with altruism , though its various stakeholders evidently can continue spending whatever share of the income they earn from the company and other sources of altruistic ways .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be seen as the most momentous visit to the region by the united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago or the beginning of a distinct new phase in that epoch . the restoration of us-chinese relationships shifted the global balance of power during the cold war ’s height and prepare the way for china to open up its economy – a decision that , more than any other , defined present-day world opinion . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america remains unwilling to accept china ’s push for us regional hegemony . kissinger , ’s mission in the wake of the iraq war , was triggered by a diplomacy revolution from the us .
chinese demand is growing not only , but , as incomes rise , its composition is shifting toward more sophisticated goods and services . so china ’s role is changing : as the west ’s low-cost supplier , it now becomes a significant customer for western manufactured goods . likewise , rising chinese incomes imply structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value pursuits . technology and knowledge will remain important , but china must start generating new technology , in addition to absorbing western tools and skills . this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided that they are positioned to compete on the appropriate components of evolving supply chains .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial , inferiority complex , symptoms of which , whether brexit or putinism , impede europe ’s normalization and aspires to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s hyper-active rhetoric implies that it wants to take a battle between these symptoms . historically , french diplomacy , too , excels at grand bargains . but his recent actions seem to be reproducing them , at least initially , . but , under merkel , germany has shunned such agreements , favoring the status quo , or incremental changes , for it generally wound up paying exceptional .
dublin – europe ’s ’s needs , and the europeans ’ craving , are back at odds . after nearly 70 years of tranquility , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity is so important , indulging nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences . this failure is rooted in electoral politics of confinement towards individual countries , which forces policymakers to pretend that they can tackle economic issues with domestic policies on their own . at a time when vigorous coordinated action is needed to stave off a european union ’s financial meltdown , the popular support that has fueled european integration over the past six decades is waning . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too deeply interconnected to be an independent economic policy to work .
a full assessment of the war in iraq and its effects on the middle east will take ten years or more to complete . for one thing , it is still too soon to judge that argument ’s merits . for one thing , it is still too early to judge that argument ’s merits . indeed , over the past six months , national elections in lebanon and local-level elections in saudi arabia have been held there . the skeptics have a point , but they go too far .
as thomas mann once wrote : “ liberty is more complicated than power . ” freedom changes a frame and a substance of choice , as well as of individual and collective responsibility . it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise in obedience , competition and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable fates . in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them back to europe ” by their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moved from a closed society to open one is both plausible and extremely difficult .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the united states ’ agenda in 2017 . back then , the republican-controlled house of representatives has groomed for this for years , creating a detailed blueprint for reining in how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . now , with a broad republican majority in both the senate and a republican-led congress in the white house , such plans may provide the basis for legislative action . the profusion of corporate tax reform is particularly pronounced . i believe that it will have a highly favorable effect on business investment , boosting productivity , and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression nor even the berlin wall . palme 's main speech referred to " détente , " " as to " trust , " and " friendship " but never " but never " in the name of freedom . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . palme and jean-luc lafontaine , then one of opposition leaders in germany , failed to see the cold war as chiefly a conflict between freedom and tyranny . this alliance between the two parties resulted in profound distortions of fundamental western values .
another type of revolution took hold in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to be governed once more by the western powers that had so ignominiously defeated japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays want their freedom as well . these aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , founded in 1945 . for a short time , many prominent people , albert einstein , believed that only a world government could ensure global peace . the un , as a dream of european unity , was also a part of the 1945 consensus .
but the financial crisis is merely one of multiple crises confronting the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem has been made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take on even more leveraging , comes as no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another , each strategy fueled absolute conviction until minutes before abandoning a different one . even if the confidence truly had been all that mattered , the economy shrank . those who would not have the money are not being spent . moreover , what little action has been taken has been geared toward redressing the financial system .
officials face a simple choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital flows or be ready to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . at the center of the foreign-capital bonanza , the stagnant levels of private-sector investment in tradable goods represent a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . amid the foreign-capital bonanza in the middle of the spectrum , the stagnant level of private-sector investment in tradable goods is a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to drift . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have merely themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this wildride . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for the functioning of the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead .
the eu ’s foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to bolster the global nuclear security framework once they gather at the un international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event that is open to any country . even a relatively small amount of material , like the cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy , could do serious damage if combined with a conventional explosive lens in the so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or otherwise deliberately used for exposing the public to dangerous levels of radiation ) . a proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when used or store them , and not only when it is carried out internationally , as is the case now . at the top of the agenda is the goal of ratifying improvements to a crucial nuclear security facility – france , for example , on the physical protection of nuclear material .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who was brought down by his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch the two countries are playing semi-final in the cricket world cup . the match played out in march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political side , however , both countries were not evenly match . this time , the initiative came from singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to patrol the two countries ’ semi-final in the cricket world cup . it was gilani , who sat next to singh to watch the play ; but , ultimately , process , rather than protocol , will define how the bilateral relations move forward .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all information about locally discovered viruses must be protected through equally similar mechanisms that the un food and agricultural organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive their seeds and derive profits from the resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which occasionally allows multinational corporations and affluent governments to extract outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture . but it is dangerous folly to widen this policy toward viruses . if the very notion of “ viral sovereignty ” was applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would n’t have central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these let researchers test drugs and vaccines against all the different strains of the virus that causes aids .
since 2001 , unit labor costs have grown faster than real gdp and employment , undermining an economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . the new government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s biggest challenge will be to enact reforms that enabled italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors , after years of misrule and neglect . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , its lowest level in the oecd . during the past decade , italy ’s share of world exports dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . this , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital .
conflicting motivations are perhaps a more important reason why citizens increasingly mistrust experts . there is , instead , a misconception at work . but the technical prowess is not the only or even the core issue at hand . policy wonks sense themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably fear that a wonk in question may be in thrall to a specific ideology or methodology ; that the advice can be politically motivated ; or that the advisers may tailor their counsel to their own career concerns ( how to get that plum job on wall street after it leaves the government , for example ) .
the price of inaction is substantial . while export earnings are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . whichever party combination comes out on top , and helmut kohl ’s coalition must still be viewed as the narrow favorite -- it enjoys a meager majority , depending on any significant initiative unlikely to support its political opponents . thus , germany seems destined to become stuck in the doldrums for some time . disillusionment with policy increases and may even bring forth the right-wing populists that democratic germany has so far been spared .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all europeans and the increasing prominence of europe – a crisis notwithstanding – notwithstanding – as a reserve currency means that the eu , just like america , is able to set the agenda for negotiations a new global rulebook . to be sure , europe is occupying the moral high ground that america mostly vacillated , owing largely to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . but there is little sign that eu governments are seizing this opportunity . the difference is that america acting decisively . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled , be the foundation for a new moral authority .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) like israel ’s then-prime minister , binyamin netanyahu , goes on a way to surpasses david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , because his country is the longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s character with democracy would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , iran could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . as j.p. hartley wrote in the go-it-alone opening : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently .
back in september 2008 , for example , former president roman herzog published the polemic entitled to stop the ecj ! he accused luxembourg ’s magistrates of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member countries , and urged the german constitutional court to invalidate a number of controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated throughout europe , where , for some time , substantial disquiet over “ judicial activism ” has occurred in france and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings have generated a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade union and a social-party targeting the court ’s alleged zeal in siding with business over the interests of workers . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 round of referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s referendum .
on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . here , a number of proposals have already surfaced , including a universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; negative income taxes ; and a variety of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefit payments . this means shifting focus from back-ward-looking labor-market policy , which attempts to protect workers in existing occupations ; future-oriented measures such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . in addition , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health-care providers made more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy . at the same time , countries must ease workers ’ skills through reforms to their labor markets and social-security nets .
likewise , the us is failing on the application of soft power . as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ the us is not being killed more quickly than it is being designed . ” indeed , according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are now behind our opponents in using communication – either to recruit or train . ” likewise , the us has failed in terms of how soft power is deployed . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon ” are behind our opponents in using communication – either to recruit or train .
the key to a clean future is clean technology , the costs of which have been falling steadily and will continue to do so . our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial-gdp growth , higher rates of energy consumption , and a cleaner environment . air , soils , and water pollution have been rising , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . at times , these technologies are paying for themselves , and they will have to be embraced . but this is not all that has happened so far .
at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovation to the classroom . as a result , students in places where they do not yet build schools or too few highly qualified teachers are able to still access an education . likewise , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , despite the hundreds of kilometers that they are screened . after all , a lecture by a good teacher , even if broadcasts throughout the internet , is preferable to facing time with an untrained adult . for example , some providers are developing learning models in which students can watch teacher-created videos online from rather than substance classes to show that precious teacher-student face early attention to interacting rather than lecturing .
the chinese government has been investing heavily in state-owned firms and the privately-owned “ national ” champions , ” mostly to ensure that china ’s profits out of markets , while its leadership controls as much of its spoils as it can . meanwhile , china ’s ’s leaders , none other than playing the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their position and boost their hand in negotiations . to help these domestic powerhouses enhance their market leverage , the us government often favors them at the expense of their country ’s foreign competitors . at the same time , the chinese government has been making large investments in state-owned firms and the privately-owned “ national ” champions in recent years , ” mostly to ensure that china ’s profits from market power , while its management controls as much of its spoils as possible . alternatively , china ’s ’s leaders will use surging national pride to bolster their standing and boost their hand in negotiations .
otherwise , they would have to sustain much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates – an approach with which most central banks ( with the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are notoriously weak . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excess credit expansion , and asset bubbles . at the same time , however , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation might lead to sustained supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . so , while central banks are reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , as they have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation might remain low for the longer term . this central bank “ patience ” risks de-anchor inflation expectations downward .
one such catalyst might be the financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . beyond an attractive possibility , a global pact would have to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive possibility . a contest for global leadership might serve this purpose just as well . what would persuade chinese leaders that they must quickly reinforce the open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? to reach agreement on similar scale and influence , world leaders , especially the us and china , would have to come under similarly high pressure .
winston churchill ’s famous invocation of delaying tactics by the british and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . for , while a majority of the french today may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that he will be re-elected in 2012 . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fears about its future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , rather than a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen has the right to be equality under the rule of law . not so much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen reject ; that is its essence . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will have dishonor first and forth .
at the same time , the international community must promote integrating refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , countries are getting just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to deliver adequate housing , food , medical care , schooling , and job training during the first several years of displacement . with canada on its own having said it will resettle some 50,000 syrian refugees this year , a target is clearly achievable . millions of end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo when they might return home . in 2016 , developed countries are expected to agree to accept a combined total approach to one million refugees annually , through resettlement or humanitarian assistance , student , labor , and other visas .
berkeley – inequality is on the public side almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality , and the elite ’s greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , certain social inequalities have been on the decline over the past several decades . in fact , the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination seem to be receding gradually . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among smaller castes ) are now politically assertive .
simply put , low demand or large debts are not the main culprit . there is an enormous disparity between unit labor costs , real ( inflation-adjusted ) productivity wages – in germany , and the heavily indebted southern countries . when the crisis hit , manufacturing costs in greece were about 30 % higher than in germany , so greece exported very little , and it imports extremely high . manufacturing costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . yet , as the unemployment rate continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , output has steadily lag behind germany and other northern european countries .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian-american white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis by turning it into a peace offensive that is offensive to its peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to that the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt , was complicit in a fracturing of a europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century . most important , despite the russian army expiring against the us , the us is embarking on an election campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will again elect a new president – the best rebuke that can be made to russian propaganda about the us ’s supposed failure to uphold its democracy . and yet , just as ukrainians work to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , we confront a novel threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” that the old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve .
back in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders were supplanted by a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading for the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war also angered israel from the past . and , while israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defenses , which now surround dimona , may be superior to the failed patriot system in 1991 , syria ’s ’s ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present an even more adept at challenging than saddam ’s projectiles . iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv , with one arriving near dimona . hezbollah ’s bombardment of north israel in 2006 , further proof of the country ’s vulnerability to rocket attacks .
until recently , investors had hoped that america ’s federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession because that is exactly what it has done on earlier occasions . now , they need to recognize that the fed may no longer want to . with oil , the fed , and other commodities policies firm , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed also need to worry about inflation . moreover , the us financial institutions ’ ability to stimulate the economy is being eroded by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . should interest rates decline beyond a certain point , then the dollar would arrive under renewed upward pressure , and long-term bonds would effectively follow the yield .
and having to marry and bear children of her own , they will benefit from two educated , underemployed parents , meaning twice as much literate , male conversation in home , twice its contacts , and twice as many aid to the succeed . but on the planet worst , pushing frightened , uneducated women to remain at home is more socially acceptable than facing the point that this means choosing to drag down incomes for all . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in the newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s entire growth potential . ” educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . studies show that helping women access to trade and growing businesses helps to create jobs and boost their incomes .
indeed , the last time britain had a strong voice in europe was about more than two decades ago . by the 1990 ’s , british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than it has been at any time since the eu . as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make the effective contribution to european reform . one factor driving the uk ’s birth sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to , say , america ’s or other english-speaking former colonies . the u.s. was really the “ other ” woman ” that undermining britain ’s fidelity to the eu as an attractive permanent partner .
but the battle between pro– and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake – and thus what should be a guiding focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and jobs – is the best weapons with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . that question , rather than a never-ending defense against euroskepticism , should be the central item on the deliberation front for the parties that push for an enhanced europe for all . the upcoming election will render the public ’s judgment about the success or failure on the part of the austerity policies that have been enacted . but it will also determine whether europe will be able to remain the world ’s leading economic powers , maintain its social model and safeguard its framework of rights and liberties in a world that will not wait for europeans to resolve the disparities .
and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? everybody agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? the 1994-1995 mexican crisis was perceived as a systemic risk emanating from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought the europeans parochial ; they thought the america disproportionately influenced its 1997 mile border with mexico . then there is the notion of systemic risk , one that stands not just in the eye of the beholder , but might be impossible to predict .
concern about such divergences has also reached the eu ’s task force , spearheaded by european union president herman van rompuy , to devise fundamental reforms of intra-eu economic policy coordination . concerns about such divergences have also reached the task force spearheaded by european union president herman van rompuy , which aims to devise fundamental reforms to member-state economic-policy coordination . but there is a risk that this approach will lead in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which is generally measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept . the eurozone ’s southern european members must lower their wage costs to claw back those that they have lost since adopting the common currency .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans traveled to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of an “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , with more people waking up to the threat that american president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global resistance movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is being turned into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of the american constitution , should enough of his own cabinet members deem him incapable of fulfilling the duties of the us presidency . the opposition could adopt three tactics .
if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it . and no unified measure would do more to lower global oil consumption than a sharp increase in the gasoline tax in a country that consumes more than any other : the american . no single measure would do more to make the world a less hazardous place than a massive cut in its stock of oil consumption . in the short run , it would take americans to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices . if americans had to pay more for their gasoline stock , they would use less of it now . none of this would have happened any time soon .
new york – internet firms are supposed to be all about the cutting edge , but fact and buzz are sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its focus is groups ’ power , but its real business is the old direct-mail marketing and coupons . in fact , groupon does for e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for the yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use advanced technology to reach their customers . that model clearly makes many shoppers feel good : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers and aims at just 150 million each by year-end . but groupon is spreading that model to a much broader audience , not so much at the behest of its users , but instead gaining shoppers .
the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects an equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , fueled by changes in saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ increasing preference for safe assets , increased their output of saving worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened insecurity in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived contraction of “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide enough stimulus by pushing real rates below their equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become a subject of lively debate . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become a topic of lively debate .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley has emphasized in his book the new job geography , the salience of this new split is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of america ’s overall population in some us metropolitan areas , but are four times less numerous in worse-off zones . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have explored the political consequences . they find that america ’s districts where the us economy was badly hit by chinese exports responded by substituting moderate incumbents with a more radical politician , either from the left or the right . those that do happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and the fortunes of their children and kin are all highly correlated . in fact , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this policy divide .
if they fail to respond or whether their answers are not persuasive , their names and the misdeeds attributed to them should be made public . the un commission of inquiry has collected information defining some of those responsible for the crimes it has investigated , but it has failed to make it public . its names of those responsible , it should be disclosed , either by the commission or by another body formed by the un human rights council . the un human rights council could act on its own . those to be named should be excommunicated and given a chance to refute the findings .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming to be extremely brittle and divided , the extreme right cresting in opinion polls . in france , those of us might constitute a recipe for a disaster , with no one in sight . already , le pen seems to be reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after having not been invited to a rally in the day after her attack . but , if center-right leaders are at the helm , the january 7 attack could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival .
that means rising capital and human-capital intensity across the tradable and non-tradable sectors of the economy . here , the innovations and the conditions that support it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . on the tradable side , one should look for reasons of structural change and a shift in the output toward higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , the innovations and the conditions that support it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and the shift of output toward the higher-value-added components of global supply chains .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a kind of potemkin democracy . then there are those cases when the election of a leader is treated , as though it somehow legitimizes the ensuing emergence of a dictatorship . this year , another election , no free and fair , will give putin another term in office . to be sure , elections alone are not a thing of democracy . consider those cases where elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group , which then rides roughshod on minorities – an outcome seen every so often in the balkans , for example .
what they do share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that the powerful external threat made the alternative , no deal at all , much worse . equally problematic was that the two sets of negotiations were a tendency . beyond timing , they have little in common with each other . in greece , the negotiations propelled the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his threatening revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe ’s migrants . yet iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union presents the type of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 .
so what if that benefit comes from the exercise of a enhancing drug ? for athletes wishing to compete in clean , the threat that they might defeat a competitor that does not grow faster , stronger , or more devoted , but who takes a drug to get the edge is profoundly personal . if we prohibit the drugs at all in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat . when drugs are prohibited , but some athletes employ them anyway play fields in favor of the swashbuckling . integrity seems an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of who is , and how we live .
south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing its economy to short-term “ hot money ” inflows . more broadly , countries faced with pressure from the imf and the american treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions , which amplified risks , and made pegged exchange rates still-more problematic . this sketch of the crisis highlights how much has changed over the subsequent 20 years . the outside powers , meanwhile , have compounding the problem . for starters , crisis countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward a sustainable level .
the renminbi is approaching , but not before the end of 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a first-rate international financial center . that could precipitate the dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in the us . and , even then , the renminbi will probably share some of the international stage with the dollar , rather than its replacement . in fact , the renminbi will come , but not before the end of 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a first-rate international financial center . beyond that , the us dollar will certainly go nowhere .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
i and a number of other affluent americans are contributing millions of dollars to grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . the us is deeply worried by the way in which the bush administration finds both the united states and the world . if americans reject us president barack obama ’s policies at the polls , america may be able to write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration , and resume its rightful place in the world . at the same time , if american voters endorse those policies , america must live with the world ’s hostility , and tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence . in this effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” to “ america coming together ( act ) a paypal get-out-the-post out-the-us voting operation and $ 2.5 million to a quashing voter fund ” a popular internet advocacy group that airing advertisements to highlight the administration ’s misdeeds .
after america entered into peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed , and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation of afghanistan , the kremlin stepped in to mediate talks between the taliban and representatives from other afghan groups . while russia did not overdrive the american people , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” ” ” outside the middle east and north africa . nonetheless , russia is likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . there is little reason to think that a russia that has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building will be able to mediate , much less underwrite , an durable peace agreement . yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religiosity , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted the commitment of foreign actors .
for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but how much . and that amount partly reflects the fact that working people who collect social security and medicare are subjected to the payroll tax , which finances them . the payroll tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) , in addition to personal income taxes . but experience shows that the decision to retire , or work fewer hours , is influenced by the economic compensation that this group ’s members receive . moreover , because of a complex legislation that will govern the welfare benefits of society , the older worker who pays this payroll tax is likely to receive no extra benefit .
if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . up to now , the eu ’s interest in kaliningrad has centered on its success in limiting the visa rights that oblast ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to revisit the rest of russia . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s european leaders , and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . eu enlargement will bring immense momentum to europe ’s whole , particularly the baltic region , from which so many new eu members will come up . yet the eu will continue to increase its trade and economic growth , and these might provide genuine incentives to make kaliningrad an increasingly attractive neighbor and trade partner , not only a feared source of illegal russian migrants to the eu , who are taking the advantage of a supposedly lax visa regime .
lev artsimovich , tokamak ’s inventor , said that “ fusion will be ready if society is needed . ” lev artsimovich , the tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready if a society is needed . ” one hopes that he is right . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to break down the odds , the world should be stepping up investment in a technology based on technology . without nuclear fusion power , future generations ’ energy possibilities will be severely restricted – creating a serious problem for developed and developing countries alike .
would the imf refrain from insisting on a much tougher program , with less funding , to any non-european country ? the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the governing managing director , who made the decision to give greece so heavily screened out from the eurozone and at a time , barely disguing its ambitions to run for the french presidency , that is , well before its arrest in new york on charges of rape . this kind of mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s management , and yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , has been named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation . it is a discomforting conflict of interest that borrowers dominate an international institution that gives them vast sums . europeans , moreover , dominate the fund ’s leadership .
so the three problems that europe will face in the second half of this year are intimately interconnected . just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few of the new faces , or of the ideas on the horizon , of ideas . looking back , we must hope that we will be surprised at this point . the eu will need its strongest leadership team that it can find in the world to embark on a course of treacherous waters to implement crucial financial reforms .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , intertroubling barriers that women face when they win nomination to an elected office and conduct a successful campaign . such hurdles include the election system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post schemes based in single member districts ) ; lack of access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it harder to accept punishing and unpredictable working environments . overcoming such structural barriers will require a comprehensive strategy for female candidates to support them . one of the most powerful tools is money in the world . in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender .
that reflects both a public-investment deficiency and an information gap : investing in job-training in a rapidly evolving industrial architecture is like the shooting at the moving target . the same issues arise everywhere , with variations in outcomes reflecting market flexibility and social-policy choices . given imperfect information about the needs of the future , labor markets are out of balance . the gap between technology and global market forces is not confined to any single country . by contrast , these adverse trends date back to about 1980 .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the legacy of their success , the copyrights law , continued to impede efforts to render cyberspace the free marketplace of ideas . but we have been here before – actually , for most of human history , for most . whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of different types of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , eliminating the last frontier separating its transmitter and rewarding information . the steep divide between producers and knowledge consumers began only around 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protections for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market .
luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and elsewhere have made glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower real estate costs , lower corporate tax rates ( making it plausible when claimed with irish stocks ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and bausche dealerships – all the essential services that make up a vibrant finance center . some of these presentations have put the wry smile or two . that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal goal . french president françois hollande was re-elected on the argue that soaring finance prices was his enemy of the day . thus , delegation after delegation to the council of ministers , mayors , and assorted finance center lobbyists were getting filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high-end slumps .
that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to correlate with his disruptive actions in a number of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz ( they have also noticed that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) . iran ’s mounting aggressiveness has already raised its hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( which has already begun strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . but , in iran , who claims that they have gotten otherwise from europe , they are simply wrong . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east are misread the situation and a cross on the red line . iran has been understandably frustrated with europe ’s slow progress toward the launch of instex , a bartering mechanism intended to enable some kind of european trade despite american sanctions .
last but not least , managers , not distant stockholders , control access to well-paying appointments and a lucrative consulting system . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have proved incapable of coping with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations . thus , managers are quick to embrace “ aggressively ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , risk conceals , and portrays a smooth track record of earnings growth . thus , the internal and external auditors are often co-opted . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , say , or excessive reliance on peer review for the auditors and on the so-called “ made in china walls ” to keep the brokerage and inefficient banking activities separate .
that implies potentially massive economic , ecological , and social loss to both the developed and developing world . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised an international regime with access and benefits sharing ( arabs ) of its genetic resources . that would enable researchers and companies in the developing world to cater to a genetic treasure trove in return for a share of the benefits that are then developed . but brokering the arabs regime has proven elusive , and , amid a lack of an international agreement , diminishing access to access , and thus the declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . countries in asia – indeed , throughout the developing world – simply are not exporting their abundant and economically important genetic resources .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and broaden the scope for market-based economic management . the other grouping , led by china , will stabilize at lower gdp growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to mature structurally . the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than they have been in the last couple of years , though they still accrue disproportionately to those already in the rest of the world . a third group , spearheaded by europe , will struggle , as has continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries , complicating regional policy choices . they will gradually reorient their pro-growth models in order to make them more sustainable – an effort that the occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake but not derail .
unlike 3g - and 4g - broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , owing to its promise not only to upgrade the framework for mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and the digitalization of the entire economy . once again , european companies incur the cost of such action . and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with the american economy , europe has struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . unless it can make the euro into an international currency to rival the dollar , the european economy will remain highly vulnerable to the us 's extraterritoriality . a third area of soft-power spillovers was technology , particularly with 5g respect .
when evaluating clinton ’s statements on the topic , the fact-checkers are making much of the finding by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are n’t more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , and therefore can not explain the performance differential . blinder and watson suggest that five factors include oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – that might together account for 56 % of the growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which those factors have been influenced by america ’s president ’s policies . so , in doing so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? we know even less about the factors that have been responsible for the other 44 % of the us performance gap .
another possibility is for the american people to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed late in the bush administration in order to forge ties with some asean members , singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , that may be too difficult politically , and an asean sub-grouping could prove more realistic . in this age of crisis and unemployment , the american public can question freer trade . this could be constructed to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand , with the eventual goal of being the apec-wide deal , which would be an impressive achievement if realized , in late 2011 , when it would be obama ’s turn to play host all leaders .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . in the united states , for the fifth consecutive year in power , the us congress has still passed a full-year budget , much less tackling the economy ’s underlying trend of growing and employment headwinds . this has been particularly true of such policymaking entities , which possess far greater tools for addressing advanced economies ’ sources of growth and employment challenges . rather than take advantage of the opportunities afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial .
like high-level managers at publicly traded private firms , the policymakers who make the wrong decisions should face clawbacks in the form of a down pension . meanwhile , just 15 % of private-sector employees – people who have presumably relied on government-funded and infrastructure pensions – receive the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan , according to the center for pension rights . meanwhile , just 15 % of private-sector employees – people who have presumably relied on government-funded education and infrastructure agencies – receive the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plans that will cushion ryan with the center for pensions . in order to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead , linking politicians with pension revenues to the state ’s performance . pension is a longstanding commitment from the state to an individual politician .
that was true of zionism , of the italian risorgimento , and a majority of other catholics in northern ireland . the pa ’s prime minister , salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keep parliament inactive , and keep out the opposition . abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections are always postponed . of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach out to the promised land . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the us commander of guantánamo ’s task force , back admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his own prisoners , claiming that “ they are all terrorist acts ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ” but it was the cia that made mistakes before . the khaled el-masri case , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to have been just another such mistake . murat kurnaz , the turkish german-born turkish man , for example , had been held in guantánamo bay for four years before their release last august . seized from the cia in macedonia , it was booed in afghanistan and interrogated for five months before being released without charge .
the rotating presidency will be replaced by an elected president of the council . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister – though formally denied that the title , this is what all it will call it – with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . a high price has to be paid for this agreement , and eu citizens will become the common norm . a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger eu role to play in the european parliament and national parliaments . the eu ’s citizens will integrate with a legally binding set of fundamental rights , with majority rulings becoming the common norm .
van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience ” shows that , without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risk excluding some groups in society . in many countries , cash is indeed in decline , although the rate is different markedly from the eu . in fact , we must hope that , at this point , the us government can respond to this question . the most striking parts of the “ future of finance ” concern how payment solutions are changing . money-usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden alone over the past decade , and is now plummeting at more than 10 % per year in the united kingdom than in germany .
a second reason for avoiding imf interventions in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for the same reason , imf lending can be a burdensome legacy from a market-based perspective . for starters , by taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ off-the-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debts with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used primarily to service maturing bonds . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed solely on defaultable private debts , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . as a result , a pool of lucky bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those that became junior to the imf ’s debt and remained highly exposed to a likely restructuring .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses , the market and interbank short-term rates are soaring . and , indeed , the issue is set to be a structural one . to be sure , china ’s ’s dollar reserves are relatively plentiful . as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s largest currency issuer of reserve assets , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with an m2/gdp ratio of roughly 200 % , compared to around 80 % in the us . how has this effect happened , and what should policymakers do ?
another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do not spur sufficient systemic thinking . globally , public-health policy has been shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration through engineering , medicine , social and managerial sciences , and the humanities . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , the gcc institutions are at risk of falling behind in the global norm . technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffective unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s true needs . while institutions like the weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that target these types of health challenges , much else is needed .
i continue to believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . indeed , given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a victorious republican will be france ’s next president . more telling , of course , will be the party primaries in november . in terms of age and profiles , he resembles the current french version of hillary clinton , a more practiced internally than that of his conquest of power . and , though juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french could reject his mercurial version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s much darker left .
how can an innovations that is never just a technological but also a social one as well , be achieved and fully employed ? some hard political choices lie ahead : which elements of a framework program to keep , and which ends ? and , perhaps most importantly , what are the optimum trade-offs to reach eu member states and european institutions working to collaborate more effectively on a common european future ? under the banner of “ oversimplifying , ” the “ how ” gravitates toward outsourcing of much of the implementation to the eu ’s agencies to out-perform agencies , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their concrete missions . this requires seamlessly working and far more efficient interfaces interface between eu agencies and the european commission that retains overall control over them , as well as rigorous revision of financial-sector regulation for the whole and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape .
far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , the war will most likely play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a fresh lease on life . political repression and silence in arab public opinion should worry america and its arab allies , not to reassure them , for this means that there is no way around the public ’s ability to channel its concern , demands , and frustrations peacefully . indeed , militancy , hoping to recover just from the devastating blows that they have been absorbing since the war on terror began , is already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq . despair and alienation have taken hold in the younger generation of arabs , who represent well over 50 % of the region ’s population . an america ’s invasion of iraq , with large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and make them inclined to join al qaeda-style “ holy " war cells .
moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared from the consequences . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian military aggression than it is today . by committing to purchase more russian gas than was necessary , and to a much longer time off the table , the eu would help finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct peace threat in europe . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close . yet , nord stream 2 would make those hardship inevitable .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite threats ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . throughout the us health-care system , pharmaceutical companies pay players to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives . and those who are supposed to be acting as on-line watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . but in fact , in so far , there has been little mystery . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffectual governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . this represents not only a massive waste of resources , but also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem . though the arab world has traditionally been a conservative , almost 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , and young people are suffering the highest rates in most of the region ’s countries . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which muslim-majority citizens feel disenfranchised . but while there are many reasons for blaming the foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will address anything at all .
almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , up from 13 % in 1990 . since unicef began emphasizing women ’s hiring to support its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . in order to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , it has been critical to address the obstacles , whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay , that they confront . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full eradication of our sights , we might permit polio to return . let us remember that risks such women take to protect everyone from a disease that has taken a enormous toll on global health .
a large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits bubbles created by such platforms , advances in the digital false realities where existing beliefs are becoming more rigid and extreme . in the us , around one-third of the adult population has become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . america has no effective regulatory framework for internet platforms , and lacks the political will to generate one . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google designs ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking ” in the us . western democracies are unprepared to come to terms with this threat .
“ if not , ” the president warned , “ the people who mistreat inmates would be treated like war criminals . ” the american plan for war crimes covers violations committed before the current conflict began . when american troops were taken prisoner in iraq , president bush said that he expects them to be treated humanely . president bush ’s remarks drove home the importance of rigorous adherence to the geneva conventions and the question of how war crimes trials could be convened in postwar iraq , and to which they will conduct them . american civil servants recently released a list of other iraqis who would face trial for past crimes .
to manage such cases , one needs a competent person , with his or her experience , conviction , and social awareness . second , today , ’s algorithms become extremely good at pattern recognition when they are delivered with big data sets , finding objects in youtube videos or detecting credit card fraud ; but they are far less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit the conventional pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or offer a little “ nodding . ” third , the most recent systems can not explain what they have done , or why they repromise a particular course of action . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – one needs a trained human being in a decision-making loop . to manage such cases one needs a competent person , with his or her experience , intuitions and social awareness .
the second important area of progress has been the reforms of russia ’s ’s federation : the establishment of the federal districts and the reform of the federation ’s council . these changes are controversial ; but a federation whose laws are not being observed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which rule-bound laws depend on a whim of local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , russia today is a realistic , albeit imperfect , federation . the country also advanced in the road of fiscal federalism : by translating all of the value-added tax into its federal budget and by personal-income taxes into regions , it provides for a sensible system of distributing budgetary resources among its tiers of authority . president putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s moves to strengthen an integrated system of power are thus logical and correct .
within israel ’s right-wing line , many fear that trump is merely seeking to appease israel with its rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as mainstay of us interests in the region . it may be that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s aid for saudi arabia may help drive the forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , given trump ’s inability to take the real stand on any of the core domains of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status , the idea that he plays some well-thought-out long game on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched . to israel , this is about more than a little concern . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberal minister of defense and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , quickly voiced concern about the arms deal .
actually , in the northwestern last year , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating growth . strengthening the north ’s housing markets could do wonders to reverse the alarming regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . and the weaknesses in london ’s housing market do n’t seem to spread elsewhere . one thing we can be absolutely certain about is that the us government should continue to pursue policies to engage with the north powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands engine , ” too . to tolerate this trend would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy .
new delhi – for some time now , transnational firms ( mncs ) have been betting on the rules of the global economy in order to minimize their fiscal liability – or even to eliminate it altogether . and this shift would be occurring at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . and , for some time now , an independent commission for the reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for mncs ’ unitary taxation .
a third step must be an expanded research-and-development program to novel and more effective approaches to controlling the disease . recent breakthroughs in basic science provide hope that one could develop a vaccine over ten years if trillions of dollars of research and development funds mobilized both the public and private sectors . that is included : money to stop the transmission of hiv/aids from maternal to infants ; funds to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and , with a good program , even funding for anti-anti-retroviral therapies . the most promising long-term response is the protection vaccine . with precision , low-cost combinations of drugs , and drugs being provided to the poorest countries at the lower end of the cost of production , could then be extended arv therapies into even very poor countries at an acceptable price .
in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – over the lifetime . clearly , a worldwide shift in gender-related attitudes and norms is needed . but , in the long run , the violence against women can be difficult to detect . even those who are aware of it might choose to ignore it , believing that it is neither their business nor their businesses are too widespread to make a difference , or because they are too busy being involved . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices – policies that are effectively discouraging gender-based discrimination while preventing the violence , including by punishing their perpetrators .
this month , new mayors took office without the cse electoral commission ( cse ) made the public 100 % of the popular vote , an open-ended violation of the nicaraguan electoral law . despite complaints from the catholic church ’s episcopal conference , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the cse has refused to permit a recalculation by the ballots or scrutiny of impartial observers . moreover , while electoral fraud in managua was most widely documented , the same modus operandi has emerged across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . the shia government thus proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of the country ’s 153 municipalities . and , in protest peacefully , the government has resorted to violence to curb them .
indeed , even if putin found a way to retain power without amending the constitution , a possibility that was endlessly speculated about russia ’s dwindling democrats ’ band , the undemocratic nature of its strategy is glaringly obvious . what makes that work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . presidential democracy , it is said , only reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor crimean rulers , ” whereas a parliamentary system would permit a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power . putin would then be czar regardless of any office formally its own making . moving from one high offices in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is merely a technicality .
morsi ’s timing was noteworthy : earlier this month , following the victory of international acclaim for his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , in both the streets and egypt ’s new constitution ( on which they have largely wrote ) . it would be a bad mistake , as it might be . if they do so , will the west , with its support for egyptian democracy , withdraw its support for egyptian democracy from the name of “ stability ” ? at the same time , the question of what to do about iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear program will return , with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election to demand an answer in the next few months .
the word “ liberalism ” is not meant to mean the same thing for all people . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties alike – had to be reinforced . in many circles , it had come to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and the full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case have another form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough .
in essence , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . what ’s more , macron hopes , is that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . in that case , which diverse the populist will seize the opportunity ? in fact , the probability is that such reforms will squeeze all boats , giving populists a chance . despite talk of the “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal .
china is 10 times the size of japan , and japan was no easy way to deal with , either . the first shock was intensified by an globalization process that gave rise to plenty of new low-wage competition . the second shock was eu integration , including that of europe ’s northern and southern enlargements . german precision instruments and fiber optics lost their competitive edge as japan entered the games . though globalization is some gradual process , it has gained momentum when china decided to play the game .
america ’s worsening fiscal position is leading to a strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy , if jobs disappear in one sector , the new jobs are being created in another . the government ’s role is to facilitate labor movements from one to another . it is the primary responsibility of the government to maintain full employment . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for us exports and good for imports .
to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is the foundation of all their external actions . defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; the exercise of power remains at the heart of its diplomatic calculations . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many of the big issues – from climate change to nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . yet , on the great issues of war , tranquility , and the balance of power , europe seems stuck between a insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual nations about how to define and guarantee one ’s own national interests . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers , brazil , china , india , and russia , remain insistence not only on the primacy of their national interests ; but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action as well .
the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , has lost , but receives 46 % of the vote . despite his reelection , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty , by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic probably is not in serbia ) who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : former yugoslav prime minister , fidel djindjic , collaborated with the tribunal to pay back it , paying a after his life . such an foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , a war . without full control of either the proof or the allegations , the icty has lacked from the beginning of the legitimacy and authority of the “ victors ’ justice . ”
to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues such as air pollution , nutritional toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach also aspires to the recognition that china ’s continued development hinges on a healthy balance of islam and economy . for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recession have laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undermining popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at advancing societal outcomes . furthermore , china , the embodiment of the go-for-gdp growth movement , has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing improved social and environmental outcomes , in addition to more modest gdp gains . this shift is tantamount to a third , wider development : the world ’s increasing understanding of where the planet is spearheading environmentally , particularly when it comes to tackling climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , yet on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially took off my right even to write the word . as a piece of my work , i frequently edit education materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving insights into problems related to sexual and reproductive health , including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . but just two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – a ngo i worked for the halting distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it contained information about south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion . as a rwandan doctor in south africa , i have provided abortion services for more than ten years .
how should china approach the creation of not only facts on the ground , but the ground itself , across the south china sea ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea standing again forever ? the us election campaign is heating up at a time when america is confronting a daunting set of problems . how should it approach china ’s creation of not only facts on the ground , but that is the ground itself , across the south china sea ? indeed , how can america react vigorously to russian aggression without forging a long-stalled project to bring it closer to the west ?
the us has eroded its command structure , undermined its propaganda , overtook half of its senior leadership , squeezed out of its financing , damaging its supply networks , and dissipated its personnel . the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism , no matter where it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , somalia , iraq or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . since 9/11 , the us has reembraced 700 square kilometers of its territory . the us has deprived its arm – and the resulting revenues – of 200 us oil and gas facilities .
when the berlin wall came down in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , rather than artillery , brought it down . many of these scholars became prominent proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr . unfortunately , bush failed to learn that lesson , too . academic and scholarly exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet academic and kgb agents would steal american technology , they would fail to note that visitors vacuous political ideas stood in front of scientific secrets .
after all , if china is america ’s main economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s principal diplomatic partner , what is left behind for japan ? today , chinese-style and indian-style modernity is a mentally destabilizing japan . its aging population is watching resignedly as the new , lesser asia , become as important for america as europe was during the cold war . george w bush ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s approach was to view india as the “ struggle against china , ” ” and to strike a balance between the world ’s “ greatest democracy ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ” forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ”
new york – the global recession now underway is caused not just by a collapse of financial panic , but also by a greater underlying uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . consumers are pulling back from their homes and automobile purchases , not only because they dealt a blow to their wealth with falling stock and residential real estate values , but also because they are unsure where to switch . should they risk buying a new car , when gasoline prices could soar again ? will they be able to put food on the table after this year ’s spectacular surge in food prices ? in fact , decisions about business investment are even starker .
the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal of german-polish extermination camps , in which an estimated six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . they were german-polish camps in occupied poland . no trace of the polish authority remained . everywhere in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated fashion , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . this is one reason why poland was right to insist that the camps were not being called in the name of polish narcotics ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) .
in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , putting it second to japan ’s panasonic , in 2009 . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufactures with a business model that others have been deeply imitated . india ’s ’s ’s tata tata sells its cars for as much as 75 % less than its european competitors do . within the telecommunications sector , there are now a half-dozen emerging-market multinational corporations at the top ten in the world . the main suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firm are found in china , where huawei is now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson .
meanwhile , the bulk of its liabilities are social security and health care , which can not be bloated . yet , with high levels of unemployment now likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households might end up being worse off – with higher rates of food and fuel prices hitting disposable incomes . indeed , even america ’s government , with its debt duration of some four years , would be unlikely to benefit much , if not massive . what would help is as long as their nominal disposable income has risen in proportion to their ( fixed ) debt-service costs . even for distressed households that have borrowed long , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain .
unless he missed the opportunity to advance the asia-pacific trade deal ’s goal while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly wo n’t pass his opportunity to ensure that the g20 ’s agenda serves china ’s interests . of course , with turkey ’s term at the g-20 ’s helm barely beginning , xi has probably yet to settle on some concrete priorities . but at least some of the potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent . elements of the g20 ’s agenda have align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly regarding its infrastructure . though china ’s ’s ’s leadership will , it hopes , lack of the drama of 2009 , president xi jinping will no doubt make it any more like that .
new york – in the aftermath of the french revolution of 1789 , deputies within the national assembly who supported the revolutionary bargains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old policies of the monarchy and church congregated on the right . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the far left . so far , many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , elsewhere . marine le pen , whose national front is allied with the far right , disagrees : on her , macron , who has been minister in the socialist government , is a leftist . so far , many commentators on the french presidential election have highlighted that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france , or , indeed , elsewhere .
moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction – a kind of tax that proceeds not to any public purpose but to fill the banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ coffers – will be curbed . but the likely failures are just equally noteworthy : the too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is now worse than it was before the crisis hit . as a result , it will probably be a long time before we can assess the success of whatever legislation the american congress ultimately enacts . we should toe the likely successes : some form of financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading will move toward exchanges and cleanup house homes from murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be in place . but the verdict ’s criteria are clear : the new law needs to curb practices that have compromised the whole global economy ; and to reallocate the financial system toward its proper tasks , managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small – and medium-size enterprises ) more effectively , and operating an efficient payments system .
to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify as europeans , with opposition to the uk citizens who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scotland , scotland , or welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are extremely likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . this is one reason why germany and the french imperial critiques of the eu have broadly focused on the performance of the bloc , whereas the british have often struck at the european project itself . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . in fact , the uk is naturally closer to nato than france .
the long-run implications of the deal lie in sharp contrast to obama ’s own february 2010 eu budget proposal and to the republican ’ contrary proposal . by agreeing to cap current tax rates over just two years , the us tax package reduces the projected national debt by the end of this decade ( relative to what it would have been with the obama administration ) by some $ 2 trillion , or close to 10 % of gdp in 2020 . indeed , while the new tax law is generally described as a kind of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a massive , immediate fiscal contraction . obama wanted to continue the tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , except those with per capita incomes above $ 250,000 . in fact , the republican party proposed continuing the tax rate permanently for every taxpayer .
the crisis has also exposed the scale of america ’s massive retail sector ’s massive over-capacity , with estimates pushing at least one-fifth of all american shopping malls . the response to the crisis will be a hastening of the movement toward on-line purchases , in which a physical location is no longer a preeminent component of shopping decisions . spending on automobiles ground to a halt until the government ’s stimulus programs in many countries revived it . but schemes like the public subsidy for scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply led many people to reschedule their purchase again . the automobile market rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years .
indeed , confucianism became the chinese state ’s official ideology two centuries before the christ was born . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of a government by benevolence under a virtuous ruler . as one confucian classical line put it : possessing virtue affords a ruler . possessing the people gives him the territory , so much of it goes to ordinary people . possessing virtue gives harmony between man and nature , just as obedience within a stratified society .
a damascene conversion is not only feasible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the only way to free syria from a fateful iranian embrace is by drawing it into a regional peace-building scheme . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to meet america ’s state for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and committing them to terror . a syrian-israeli peace , however , would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thereby halting hezbollah ’s own arms lines , while allowing the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . the most realistic scenario is today a trilateral split pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan region , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by his rural majority . recognizing this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , thailand ’s urban elite had long exploited it , upending the elite ’s consensus that had long prevailed . while the rural population had more than enough of them to consume , their economic opportunity and upward movement was constrained by a shoddy education and docile state-run media feed them soap operas and official emails . for one thing , thailand ’s middle class was becoming increasingly estranged from its urban elite . for someone to become somebody , all roads led bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities .
by setting an example of coexistence , they can alleviate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who attended the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; instead , they carried out expatriates , including the activists and the religious arab league , including the activists and the religious arab league , who repressed in syria for support of the revolution . the delegates – joined by a number of sunni opposition members – denounced assad and announced their unwavering support for a united , democratic country offering full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or an ethnic background . if the alawites and the sunnis living abroad can rise united against the assad regime , so can their counterparts within syria . “ depriving the regime of the sectarian card ” is critical to its ouster , ” the conference ’s organizing committee noted .
in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . meanwhile , brazil and south africa have committed no capital donations to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ” while equitable shareholding has not been china ’s preferred route , it has not been pressing the matter . on the other hand , china ranks the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . china announced its plans for the aiib soon after signing ndb articles of agreement in 2014 .
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in the us dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has attracted broad bipartisan support . and it is especially bizarre that , even as us policy toward mexico has dramatically increased the odds of an anti-american chávez-type character becoming president there , his officials are providing positive publicity to a government that amounts to a caricature of the disastrous mode of governance . well , in both cases – america should have said no : while aid is made on a transparent basis , the symbolism of a wealthy country taking away money from a impoverished neighbor with millions of agony is hardly an attractive one . the trump administration needs to stay the course , mainly because lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . instead of bashing latin america , america needs a steady and principled friend that will not be swayed through the corrupt bribes of any kind .
a similar solution is needed for the european constitution . europe , after all , can not preach cultural pluralism and practice one of constitutional imperialism . europe , after all , seems genuinely committed to democracy worldwide . in the european way of thinking , however , liberal democracy must be disseminated pacifically , through persuasion , not arms force . indeed , the political imperative is as great a constitutional one .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us had traveled to tijuana to meet with juan at the request of its attorney general .
the implications of trump ’s ’s ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . trump appreciates what india already has been doing , but is urging him to do even more , by using its vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . in any case , the potential for the region ’s us-india security cooperation seems to have already been discussed , while hinted only in trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s talk , it was already engaged on each other . the address has also sharpened the contours – already limned during his recent visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what could be called the trump doctrine . he has also suggested that america will work with india to build an indo-pacific security zone .
it has organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , the reconstruction of japan , and more . now china has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , though still only around one-fourth of the size in per capita terms . under that order , the rest of the world has closed much of the vast technology , education , and economic gap with america . the share of the global economy represented by the us has steadily decreased by about half ( to around 16 % , to around 16 % currently ) . as economists like to point out , global growth has been “ convergent , ” meaning that poorer countries have catching up .
a focus on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy – and resource-efficiency imperatives could help to safeguard the economy ’s sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , it is also critical to resilient infrastructure and innovative incentives . of course , achieving that goal , not to mention the other sdgs , will be costly , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . given budgetary pressures in much of the donor world , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied upon to fill that need . indeed , as a report by the international committee for sustainable development finance highlights , the spectrum of financing for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever .
to be sure , most taxes do impose heavy “ excess burden ” : costs are substantially larger than the value of the revenues raised due to potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a oil tax , on the other hand , does not impose an excess burden . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits . shifts to a more energy-efficient approach , in terms of transport , ease congestion . for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were then reallocated to oil users , would become more unambiguously good .
selling lesser-evil and functional foods has done well in recent years , bringing in some $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 . suppose you buy low-carbohydrate goods , energy , and nutrition bars , vitamin – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , us marketing foods , and practically anything with claims of health . so-called “ functioning ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which producers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to allow them to assume the “ qualified ” health claims permitted by the world ’s food and drug administration ( fda ) . when you routinely buy such foods , you are among the lohas ( health and sustainable lifestyles ) , the health-care industry ’s cherished demographic base . like many of us , i thought that a small , innovative companies dominated functioning foods .
all of this recalls some of the powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . all of this recalls some of the powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . in particular , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly diverse . the common market was defended at the outset on the gains that would have followed from increased trade . as a result , unity is supposedly a foundation of prosperity .
according to a recent oecd study , impact investing in the americas would not exist without support and partnerships with the federal government via such grants , loans , and guarantees . more recently , the obama administration has designed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts and must be an essential feature of all government programs . in the sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve its measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors finances the program ’s upfront costs , and government promises returns when the program is met . several existing federal programs like the commonwealth reinvestment act and a small business-investment firm program are fostering the growth of impact investing finance .
their presence indicates that , behind the parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more sophisticated narrative about china ’s wartime experience emerges . foreign assistance , including prominent america ’s role in wartime china , has had no room for it in this narrative . china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and , increasingly , to regard the western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west during china ’s wartime sacrifices , march 14 million dead – and its great contribution to holding down the more than one half-million japanese also reflects the partisan history of the war taught in china itself . under mao ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp ran up the resistance against japan .
wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the devastation that preceded it . yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high , only in the last decade alone . in real terms , the s & p 500 remains 20 % below its january 2000 ’s peak . likewise , whereas the case-shiller american home price index ( cpi ) is now up 10.2 % by the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . but are these newfound wealth effects really happening ?
in fact , the socialists began to distinguishing themselves not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting france , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( the reference by the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction may not be as powerful as the socialists may believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who had just been elected macron . and they knew what they voted for : each policy that he implemented thus far has been included in his campaign platform . the left has deeply split on every issue at all – european , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and more – making it extremely difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays .
there is an even smaller risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear to be overpopulated almost completely by a minority shia who find little compassion among majority sunnis , and by foreign-construction workers petitioning against higher wages and improved functioning conditions . nor does iran ’s government appear to be facing a genuine security threat . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic backing than the regime ’s more recent media accounts of unrest in the country ’s south suggest . the brutal crackdown on post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order through whatever means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries in guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s end wars . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; in contrast to them , however , successive governments have built institutions capable of supporting reasonably adequate levels of territorial control and domestic security . now , however , there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by a record of poverty , rampant violence , and endemic corruption , as well as all but forgotten by the international community .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . ten governments in the region are already having debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 % . as growth has slowed , public expenditures have plummeted , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment has barely begun , the old rent-distribution model has become unaffordable and the population has turned around against regimes who seem unable or unwilling to form a persuasive reformist effort . no longer content with simply displacing aging autocrats , the protesters are also targeting the key elements of the deep state and security forces .
there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is shedding this carefully calibrated system into disarray . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations , a valid demand effort , but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems . moreover , it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported foes . far from displaying a capacity for reason , as his book the art of the deal could imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to bully his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world .
so , even as public deficits and debts remain low before the crisis , they may rise sharply after one erupts . as we saw in the recent crisis , private risk adoption , and debts , as a crisis , is socialized when a crisis arrives . governments that looked fiscally sound suddenly seem insolvent . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we have identified several countries with which investors miss the risks – and their opportunities . so , even as public deficits and debts remain low from pre-crisis levels , they may rise sharply after one erupts .
i never participated in the concert at the manchester arena , but it seems to be an excellent venue for the city . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the world bank ’s growth commission , which i campaigned for an “ northern powerhouse ” program to link the british north ’s large cities to a cohesive economic unit . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government in helping to implement the early phase of the north powerhouse . i never participated in the concert at the manchester arena conference , but that seems to be an excellent venue for the city . i chaired the economic advisory group at the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the earth growth commission , which i campaigned for the “ northern powerhouse ” on a program to link the british north ’s large cities to a cohesive economic unit .
the nile delta – some 60 kilometers north of cairo ’s tahrir square , the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , “ contains secondary schooling students ” call “ the prison . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles as a whole moralizing . “ the high hopes that we had is dead yet ” has been killed . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” he said a few months ago that it gave up his name in the fear of losing the job . a deformed arm of the concrete , packaged classrooms by the dilapidated family is pockmarked with age and neglect .
the five flaws on the executive board ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , the projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will fall as a result of every dollar of fiscal contraction , used for the gnp ’s projected gnp – assume that a single-dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit would be linked to a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and weakens the island ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s debt sustainability , thus perpetuating a crisis that all parties will want to quit . yet the often-assumed fiscal plan endorsed by the board for the 2017-2026 period – which will inevitably feature at the root of debt-restructuring discussions – appears to ignore this circularity . unfortunately , the already-deeply projected drop in actual gnp is wildly optimistic , because it relies on a multitude of implausible and/or controversial assumptions .
eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple rating but make it more efficient . such scrutiny is damaging to the decay of open societies . i suggest that the world ’s open societies form an alliance with a dual purpose : fostering both the development of open societies in individual countries and the evolutionary phase of a global open society . such an alliance requires collaboration among not just governments , but also civil-society groups . the first involves development aid ; second , strengthening international institutions , such as the international central bank and the world development agency .
following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the united states could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . accra – planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states – has just been forced to back down from the us federal title x family-planning program that supports low-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinics from referring abortion patients , will cost planned parenthood about $ 60 million annually . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t end up with an existential war .
in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation came to be considered central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . and yet , in kosovo , unemployment stood at more than 45 % , six years after its end . yet post-conflict job policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given such flaws , it should come as no surprise that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . employment policies , for example , have done little to alleviate the severe regional political imbalances and discrimination within regions that have stood in bosnia and herzegovina after the war there in the 1990s .
we will engrove in our hearts the past as japan ended up being a challenger to the international order . we will intensify aid for developing countries and lead the world toward sustained prosperity . we will bolster our support for developing countries and lead the world toward still greater prosperity . we will engrave in our hearts the past as japan ended up being a challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will resolutely uphold basic values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as untrammeled values , and on the basis of self-preservation , relying on countries that share such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contribution to peace , ” and to contributing to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before .
in bahrain , the shia who make up roughly 75 % of the population were keen on reform initiated by king hamad al-khalifah . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia is detract from the wahhabi religious establishment , and backed by many fatwas denouncing them as heresy . indeed , while they represent just 20 % of the saudi population , they constitute the most -75 % – the oil-rich region ’s population . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered levels of discrimination in occupations : shia in the military , majlis government positions , retired diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , in saudi oil industries , where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s . in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming by democratic change and participation .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products like the anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . the replenishment is an vitally important news , first and foremost , consequence of the sheer scale of lives it will help to save . in the process , aids deaths have dropped by up to 50 % from their peak , and deaths from malaria have declined by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund has built up a massive supply chain to deliver goods . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new financing to help continue this work .
alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest are hemorrhaging the hands of politics . depression can be cured , but only by awarding a patient a positive vision to the future . the right-centrist parties – the union of the center-right and yabloko – have such a vision , and the people know it . the greater the educational level , the lower their voter participation seems , seems to be the lower share : among those who never vote , the percent of those with a university education is more than twice that of people without a college education . this is a sort of political depression , and it is a sort of politics that generates .
scrapping us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , particularly at this early stage , alter the fundamental perception of that intervention , both in and outside the arab world . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are actually perceived as certain form of western neo-imperialism . that is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , as well as temporary alliances , or even more enduring alliances such as nato . this past point has stood at the heart of the problems in iraq . only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except for a clear self-defense – requires .
when we predicted how much variation among individuals could be attributable to human biology , the answer was no closer to more than 5 % . that left 95 % of the variation to explain the effects on cultures and individual choices . second , we measured the effects of natural selection by observed that women , who were shorter and first gave birth when a younger had more children . but genes are just one of multiple factors that effect high and age at their earliest birth . personal choices , between nutrition and income levels , educational achievement and religious affiliation all enter the mix .
( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives an estimated 10,000 petitions annually . ) unlike the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought its assistance , far more than the estimated reasoned choice . sofia , at a time when europe ’s ongoing public-debt crisis is fracturing public belief in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one might expect european leaders to bolster as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of the drafters of post-world war ii european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat as well .
as security expert sarah chayes argues against rampant corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit is structured in nowadays . in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may appear to serve vital purposes . inevitably , leaders must contend with difficult tradeoffs . to identify the best approach in any particular case , governments need to analyze the problem in a more effective way , which implies improved intelligence and data collection . one deploys airborne soldiers to counter terrorism ; instead , another ensures critical conserve energy supplies or access to natural materials .
they can be seen as alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit , rather than explicit . willingly or not , some may seek to listen to both inflation or ecb measures aimed at trapping domestic saving into the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call “ financial repression ” ) or , ultimately , to outright debt restructuring . in the end , they are different modes of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . in fact , all three unorthodox remedies have been implemented in past debt crises . is there preferable to a full-fledged adjustment ?
after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , had developed a far more ambitious vision . sometimes leaders think that vision can resolve most of their problems , but mistaken visions – or overly ambitious – can do damage . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called the vision point . but , by then , one must be wary of visions . when pressed his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ this is just not the part of me . ”
and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from his climate commitments . trump ’s ’s ’s foreign-policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of us states like california , which has gone the way initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovation . in the us , the cost of wind energy has declined by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar power costs have decreased by 85 % . moreover , according to a recent american energy department report , jobs in wind and solar industries grew by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and the private sector has come around to depicting renewables as potentially profitable .
already , spillover effects from trade and finance transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s annual gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged just 7.6 % , reflecting a sharp slowdown , with india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate projected contraction to roughly 6 % this year . in addition , if the eurozone ’s conditions continue to deteriorate , asia could suffer more severe consequences . china ’s potentially potent domestic-demand fundamentals and ample policy maneuvers may help it to avoid a hard landing . it has become an aggressive easing of monetary policy and may deploy further fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector and local governments may undermine efforts to safeguard growth .
exploiting the historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they demonstrate how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of their economic growth after their per capita gdp hit roughly $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the steady 1990 ’s dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in a steady 2005 american dollar price . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual us growth over the next five years will fall well below 7 % . for example , in the five years after japan achieved that level , its economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in hong kong , it has slowed to just 5.8 % . in south korea , it growth slowed to 4.8 % .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . unlike the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that there is much to be gained by recognizing hard political truths , even as they emphasize some kind of radical change of course . pompeo ’s lofty reference to trump ’s famous cairo speech “ a new beginning , ” “ is that it has included the public admission of the united states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ primary missteps in the region . ”
giving large countries permanent seats on the executive also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through the appointments process . at the same time , it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to the commission in a system of open competition than under its current scheme . the last thing the ecb needs is german chancellor gerhard schroeder , assuming mr. issing ’s key post . some of the best that the ecb serves , or who has served in the past , are from within small countries . preventing any small country – just like other big ones – from competing for particular vacant seats reduces the executive board ’s prospective competency .
but labor costs rose much more rapidly in the global south , resulting in differential cost increases , which can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the currency union endures . indeed , excess wage deflation is likely to have negative effects on productivity . as long as this internal divergence persists , there can be no complete resolution of the euro crisis , because current-account deficits and/or sluggish growth will continue to stalk south european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt growth and commercial banks . skilled labor will probably emigrate faster and extreme austerity , plunging prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not exactly adding to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . against this background , increasing productivity whether through technical progress , improved resource allocation , or productive investment is just as important as fluctuating the southern economies as wage restraint is .
likewise , the established or the state church of england is the church of england , formed nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii believes that a catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . of course , this does not mean that there is no actual identity . indeed , the key element of modern british identity all seems to belong to england , rather than to the composite entity . an institution called english-language heritage curates the recent past , from prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old homeland of the country that is being celebrated in a tv costume dramas . former prime minister john major has called the uk the countries of long “ the earth of long shades on cricket medicine , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog mistresses , and pools of fillers , as george orwell puts it , ‘ old maids ’ bicycling to holy communion through the morning cruvete/… ” but what he was truly described was england .
both abe and obama are focused on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard and in supporting its allies . that stance makes the alliance far more partnership of equal value than it has been for the past six decades . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly notable now , owing to american concerns about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness to move forward . in america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s ’s “ peace constitution ” ” that abe pledged – thereby allowing japan ’s self-defense forces ( sdf ) to aid allies under attack , and assisting america and other allies in meeting its commitments to ensure asia for the sake of peaceful change has been long overdue . that bold foreign-policy initiative , facing japan ’s public equally ingrained skepticism toward any heightened exposure to military risks , has , no doubt endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , as well as securing both open – and sometimes tacit acquiescence from japan ’s asian neighbors .
indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s medical problems are public knowledge . iran is at a pivotal moment in his history , and , as citizens ’ long track lines eager to cast their votes have plainly demonstrated , iranians know this . the matter of who occupies the presidency during that transition has been decidedly uninconsequential . khamenei himself recently conceded that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ” with khamenei served as president before ascending iran ’s supreme political and religious governing position , it is easy to see that the newly empowered conservative candidate , raisi elected , was able to make khamenei its presidential successor .
but this lack of quick success does not make such efforts futile . moreover , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and the uncertainties of its very future as sovereign have fueled deep anxieties among its neighbors . and yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit between china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings that take place on transnational gatherings like asean summits . unfortunately , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have so far failed to produce any major breakthroughs on some of the most sensitive security issues dividing them .
for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here , the past , it is not supposed to be viewed as prologue . a seismic shift is back , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well prove to be a tipping point . in particular , china has made a conscious strategic decision to alter its growth strategy . and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from cheap chinese imports , the walmart effect , that enables them to edge over their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes .
ten-year us treasury bonds now yield just 2.5 % , and the rate of increase that year . a rise in the ten-year us yields to 4 % would cut the value of these bonds substantially . other long-term us bonds – both us government and corporate bonds , respectively – would suffer a similar decline . reaching for yields has also narrowed credit spreads between high-return bond yields and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . with current annual inflation at over 2 % , and the markets anticipating somewhat higher inflation over the longer run ( as measured by five basis points of a five-year-long forward inflationary expectations ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds should exceed 4 % .
without that confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be impaired . moreover , because financial institutions ’ asset holdings were bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages worsen by their need to deleverage . falling employment was shedding wage and wage incomes at the same time . as capital raised hard and costly , they deleverage by lending less . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes beyond its shrinking provision of credit .
nowadays , the risk is that the new keynesian doctrines will be used and misused to serve some of the same interests . were those who pushed for deregulation ten years ago learning the lesson is that ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reform plans – the bare minimum required to justify the $ 3 trillion in dollar bailouts ? would changing heart or merely changing strategy ? allowing america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation around the world may have served its firms well , even when imposing large costs on others .
a wide variety of factors have been driven by this growth . wage restraint and lower productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . in short , the credibility that ireland gained through its resolute fiscal policies , and the reforms have helped to restore faith , facilitating a return to faster growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point decline in unemployment undermines consumption , recovery is spreading to other sectors . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere .
because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure are needed . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the magnitude of the implied write-down actually add up to the superior outcome . a third component is the practice of suasion to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-commitments , and rule out the elimination of both free riders . that is why , under this model , and despite the initial pressures , bondholders ’ behavior might be accepted as being genuinely voluntary . and , while the rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as insolvency , the talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification is required .
that observation is as true of an individual as it is of the eu , whether the eu is an area of neighborhoods , city , state or province , or in some countries . as a result , we end up doing remarkably few things , and are buying anything else from others . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skills or product , sharing such things for millions of others that we have no clue as to what we do or make . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-and-guiding system ; the money merely tracks the value of that gifts that we emit to one another . every city has grocery shops , its beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that service its local communities .
another consortium began to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgian to turkey and the west . but , in doing so , these investments yielded little economic trickle down . in fact , the oil and gas pipelines are transport conduits , not actual employers . in fact , people are fleeing to survive on a number of dollars a day , and they have not been doing so at all . moreover , georgia ’s reward for providing an strategic export route to the azeri petroleum market was not us dollars , but its diplomatic insurance policy – that is , western , particularly the us – worried about the pipelines ’ safety .
even in hong kong , where equities recently hit new highs , they account for just over 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . at the same time , prices in wall street and europe have soared by more than 60 % over the same three months , or more . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies ” . japanese equities are priced in dollars , up from about half of their 1990 ’s peak . that picture bears little relation to what we hear in our political pronouncements or read in business newspapers .
austerity should be phased out , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to increasing youth employment and investment in small and medium-size companies in over-indebted countries . germany ’s unwillingness to take the lead on these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions , which are always difficult to overcome . within its shorter term , the single market should expand to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or closely with key trading partners like the united states . strong central institutions , accountable to a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policy . national banking systems should be unified to separate private loss of sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities , together with a deposit-insurance scheme , forming the core of the european banking union .
new delhi – china , just celebrating martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s republic ” founding , features one of the nation ’s most interesting cases evincing “ brief sightedness ” toward its past . china ’s insolent prosperity , though far from dissembling equally , china ’s relative political stability , even as the regime ’s opening remains strictly limited , is undeniable and deserving of respect . just consider the massive access to education to its enormous rural population , in sharp contrast to its “ democratic rival ” india . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn by wars internal and external , is on the verge of becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , though far from dissembling , is china ’s relative political stability , even as the regime ’s opening remains strictly restricted , is undeniable and deserving of respect .
but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the gains made by the central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasuries ) . perhaps more important , it would lack a lender of last resort , capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in a crisis . all things being considered , an independent scotland would work best by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates under domestic economic conditions . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereigns like scotland could be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluation risk . by allowing for exchange-rate flexibility , such an approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that emerge in a currency union : an undervaluation that produces inflationary pressures and overpricing that demands wrenching interndevaluations ( driving down real wages ) .
though the transition was bound to be painful , the epidemic of russia 's corruption was wreaking havoc on the economy than on the economic side effect of its reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering enabled opponents to say that the " mafia " had been grabbing the gains of economic change . corruption blights reform throughout the duma in the first ex-communist world , but there were three sources of corruption . the government , and hence economic reform , pays this neglect at the polls . value-subtracting rough industries shrunk , services spread to over 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia 's output .
it is possible that its image as the right-of-center democrat-conceals a reactionary who would like serbia to restore its pre-wwii monarchy , and for the orthodox church to play a leading role in political and social life . it crams its mediocrities ’ mediocrities , selects mostly of bad advisers , and does not obey the rare good . while it does not sacrifice major moral precepts to power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . nor is he aggressive in his utterance and war criminals , either in his utterance and behavior or in unwilling to bend the law to personal power . on one hand , many people voted by default anyway , on both the day and his defeat miloševic in 2000 .
the yellow vests must choose : a democratic reinvention or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; a willingness to repair , or a urge to destroy . they will enable themselves to become intoxicated with views of the luminaries and their experts of la france d’en haut ( the elite of france ) seeming to eat out of hand , hanging out by their every word . or the yellow vests may pivot out to the lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure that they have been perceived on tv . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hatred to win out above genuine fraternity , choosing the wrecking over reforming , they will lead only to chaos , rather than improvement , to the lives of a humble and vulnerable . they trek off in the darkest side of the political night and end in the dustbin of history , in which they can rub elbows with those other darkly , the early-twentieth-century yellow socialists ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre .
a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ this is as though iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . so what lessons can be drawn from turkish business failures in iran ? still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” proclaimed their fear that iran and turkey might become too influential . according to the iranian-turkish business council vice president , “ it is extremely complicated to do business in iran .
furthermore , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that accommodate low-resource environments . as a result , diabetes is not a unique problem among ncds ; it is actually running high risk . essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancers , and respiratory ailments are also vastly fewer available and proportionally more expensive for low-income people – and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this mismatch has prompted the lancet medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ ncd crisis of our time . ” clever collaborative projects that bring forward innovative thinkers from under-profit , academia , and the private sector combine to produce efficient , affordable , and adequate solutions desperately need .
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization had made the advice of an international organization for improving a country ’s economy , and the country had adopted fewer than half of them , the organization might have seemed like failure . but an international organization would have to be judged by the quality of the information and the advice it provides , not by whether its governments are listening . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores the purposes : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . each 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases the economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including the listing of prior recommendations and implementing them . in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations available to improve a country ’s economy , and the country has adopted fewer than half of them , with the organization taking office .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close ties with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether this is anything better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran , which he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ” moreover , he will need to keep all alternatives on the table despite growing military options , despite the possibility that military options will become less tenable in the run-up to the inter-korean dialogue . then again , persuading trump to engage in some self-reflection might actually prove to be the toughest challenge yet . most importantly , he will need at least to get the north korean regime to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal and agree on a process for pursuing dialogue , possibly culminating in another summit .
another way to view germany ’s federal election outcome , then , is as an opportunity for a fresh start . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push ahead with european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . germany ’s current prep coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp apparently determined not to join the eu , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance for jamaica ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , which comprises the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s ’s role in europe for years to come . an end to the cdu/spd grand coalition ” might mean ending political stagnation not only in germany , but at the european level , too .
elimination of fuel subsidies created riots and widespread strikes against transition governments , providing an excuse for nigeria ’s generals to reassert military control . throughout the country , the timing could not have been worse . it would have taken six long years under rapacious military rule before nigeria gained another chance at a democracy . indeed , at the end of last year , nigeria had celebrated a remarkable escape from the country ’s dictatorship . after the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler general suleimani abacha – who had suddenly dropped dead – the military sullivan agreed to yet another national election .
instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to tackle women ’s need . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health is playing in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s ’s ’s health , and its impact on communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . to reduce maternal mortality , for example , they can not provide antenatal biases , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; they also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care . these barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents .
to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s ’s ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing the country ’s armed forces intrinsically features national evolution . it thus emphasizes the need to bolster its domestic defense-missile industry . brazil ’s ’s abundance of power , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access or control , natural resources . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its own culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , and its style and substance of its foreign policies . yao ming , a china national basketball association ’s star ’s national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another michau , with china set to host the 2008 summer olympics . likewise , transnational links in the information sector are nearing a tipping point , given that western high-tech companies are increasingly using affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services . nonetheless , the real promise for china and india lies in the future . large expatriate communities in the american population – 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have a rising interest in their homeland among fellow americans .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to withhold the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died for in kyiv last winter to signal putin that clever , forceful , bullying , and intimidation may win western acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and theft of crimea . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work by the eu has instead whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu member states ’ appetite for securing russian gas supplies during the cold is causing them to forget their allies ’ security interests , a classic divide-and-rule strategy , has served chile . europe can not afford to take on it . ukraine now may just be passing through the storm ’s eye .
for example , we should ask whether it makes sense , for example , to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if some powers and financing should instead devolve into regions and nations . where feasible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local-government social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional bodies such as the scottish parliament , welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local governments . such a radical transformation – and to match the scale of the crisis to what one could have been radical – will require a nationwide debate that could have been conducted through the people ’s constitutional convention . to this end , a renegotiation of the constitution to integrate regional interests is critical to recognize that the uk is a supranational state . that convention should start by exploring brexit ’s impact on the regions .
the prospect of eu membership has been one of the most powerful tools in turning candidate countries into open societies . the eu can not possibly overtake the us as the world ’s leader . but it can establish an example both within its own borders and beyond . while the vast majority of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example . as a result , america is no longer on track to set the world ’s agenda .
that is why he had personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth of it , considering which russia won the country ’s most medal tally . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics , which forms the heart of the doping scandal . ) that is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory . to be sure , putin regards the olympics as a top and , specifically , medals . like his old soviet masters , he conflated a athletic glorification with military glory .
china ’s rise has been one of the most widely studied recent developments of our time . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been far more spectacular than that of any north korean rocket . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to engage in the case of international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by whether and how not to work . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a shockingly hard time telling its business community not to do business with someone , notably an historic friend and ally . perhaps the true pragmatism on display in the case of north korea is the reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and domestic fixation .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has grabbed headlines around the world as well as the creation of a number of conflicting explanations . indeed , some attribute the decline largely to the decline in world growth expectations . others focus on america ’s expansion of oil and gas production . still others are suspicious of a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states that has aimed at , among other things , weakening political rivals such as russia and iran . no matter how much the terms-of-living collapse reason probably can be found in some combination of these factors , the consequences are the same .
at the same time , the global oil situation is especially intriguing . the previously fashionable view that america ’s seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec , sending oil prices soaring , turned out to be nonsense . even with improved security , it would take five years to push iraq ’s oil fully on stream . with the american economy now recovering strongly , the oil price should remain high or even rise further , in the foreseeable future . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain high even though a soft global economy means that world demand is at an all-time low .
as with its predecessor , the us securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the ghost , but not the letter , of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily vulnerable to the political backlash , witness the visceral response of the german press to ecb president mario draghi ’s declaration . but omts also fit well with the huge body of historical evidence that during times of crisis , policymakers must focus on the extinguishing the fire rather than on the negotiating over who owns greece and what its costs should be . after all , if markets genuinely believed that the ecb would reject errant governments , investors would run out of participating countries at the earliest sign that conditionality is not being met at all . the omt program would produce loan conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone , which has emerged over the last three years . the reversal of that process will likely not happen as long as soon as the three crucial components of a banking union – common supervisory , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within tangible reach .
so far , the only america ’s presidential nominee to recognize the need for such an future-oriented approach is former florida governor jean bush , who formulated modernizing reform of social security and medicare that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burdens on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised the ideas for constructive reform . to allow individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , the saving rate of health accounts that is not subject to the earned income tax credit in the us during this period and can use a tax-free effort at any time to cover qualified medical expenses should be scaled up and strengthened . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas . premium support can sharply reduce medicare expenditures , because it creates a framework for more efficient spending on benefits , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage .
silvio berlusconi , who is becoming the european union 's president on july 1 th , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off large . silvio berlusconi , who became the european union 's president on july 1 - remains a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off big . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that italy 's high tv monopoly would not survive and jump-started what became italy 's main , privately owned media group . but one does not win in tv and real-estate business without the right political connections . accordingly , his fortunes started in real-estate development . in the 1960s , france was among the first to see that , say , milan , with a traditional italian town where people worked to work , would become a modern metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that generate an out-of-date or negative real interest rate , with the goal of generating cheap financing for more public-sector spending – has long been a hallmark of chinese economic policy . but , with the financing costs to firms trending , this is finally beginning to change . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary loosening that includes freeing up more financing for lending through banks that allocate a certain proportion of their total loan portfolio to small - and medium-size enterprises . through its “ committed supplemental ” program , the pboc has also begun lending directly to banks promising to leverage financing for social housing construction . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made lowering funding costs for firms , particularly for small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , top priority .
but nato expansion is not likely to make russia ’s foreign policy more peaceful ever . the countries with the greatest cause for concern over russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- no longer offer nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to pose a threat to them , as the russian army 's catastrophic misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . indeed , russia 's democrats , with their huge stakes in a peaceful future , remain adamant that expanding alliance membership to central europe will isolate their countries from europe ; strengthening russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad ; and by appearing threatening russia to deliver a rallying point for a reconstructing russian military buildup . one day that russia will become stronger , and if expanding nato into central europe now would dissuade the revival of imperial foreign policy then , this would be a powerful argument in favor of doing so .
israel ’s leaders appear to intent on getting both tactically by resisting the soft pressures of us president barack obama ’s administration and strategically on preparing the country for a new world , in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly prominent role . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence the major powers . israel may be europe ’s “ ” , ” ” ” ” ” ” and its main ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders need to start thinking about how their country can thrive in the post-western world . it is a world in which the monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will become merely its comparative merits in the eyes of its cynical , realistic actors who will judge it solely on the basis of their own national interest . but that might presuppose a small gesture toward palestinians , whom israelis regard as being so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement appears possible .
the performer explains that the deficit is all congress ’s fault for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to hijack the budget deficit , because “ congress can not digest money that does not have . ” the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically comes later , if and when the us president enacted its own tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do n’t trump reality . the performer explains that the deficit is everything the fault of the us congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to push up the budget deficit , because “ congress can not cut money it does n’t have . ” this trick never works , of course , either . he can not find sufficient expenditures to cut ( the charm asterisk melted away the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario has vanished ) ; and tax revenues did not grow ( none of the rabbit in the laffer hat ) .
on march 21 is the first day of the spring , and we would like to believe that the coming european elections will herald a new spring for the european project . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our futures projects : and that symbol is a european flag . for that reason , in january one of us launched the idea that , beginning on march 21 , we display a flag on our homes , factories , and offices . march 21 is the first day of spring , and we would like to believe that the coming european elections will herald a new spring for the european project . march 21 also marks benedict , the patron of europe ’s patron .
this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds rank immediately as “ “ “ actions about terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic manner , whereas violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treating the same as an “ isolated incident . ” according to the 2018 global index of terrorism , the death toll from terrorist attacks affiliated with far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since 2014 . the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the government ’s 2011 far-right terrorist attacks in norway , of which i am one of the few fortunate survivors . yet there is nothing remotely isolated about such incidents , either . in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far greater strikes than the islamists .
the fruits of the franco-german partnership include the european single currency , the euro . after its birth in 1999 , the german government , by now relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself once more with a lowering european profile . that modest , unassuming role lies firmly in the past , though germany ’s strength has still to be matched by the imagination . the intellectual leadership conferred by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is fading memories , as germany so far failed to generate a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s prospects and popularity . indisputably the strongest and indigable of the eu ’s 28 member countries lacks a vision for where beleaguered europeans should be headed .
meanwhile , china has engaged in what might be called the “ vendor finance ” could claim , ” ” ” providing the money that helps to finance america ’s huge fiscal and trade deficits , permitting the americans to buy more goods than they sell . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country is helping , say , finance america ’s war on iraq , just as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people is , while huge domestic needs imply ample room for expanding both consumption and investment . while the rest of the world struggles to raise its saving rate , with china with a saving rate in excess of 40 % , struggles to allow its people to consume more . in fact , to meet the challenge of a restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods would minimize the need for precautionary saving . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and the nation-wide retirement-age programs ) would minimize the need for a “ precautionary saving . ”
a high pay earned through a cosmetics or soft-power manufacturer attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor appears improper , if not immoral . sold the five-rupee ’s sachets to a poor consumers are considered a clever marketing department , but lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . after all , both activities are funded by investors seeking returns to their capital , and motivated more by profit than sympathy . but one is obviously much less socially acceptable than another . still , pmfis have succeeded by meeting some genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or out-performing humans in a fast-growing range of tasks , including some that require complex cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse side effects on both the quantity and quality of jobs has raised serious concerns . in fact , to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason that lost manufacturing jobs are lost in the united states . trump ’s us treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has proclaimed that the potential technology displacement of us workers comes “ from ” to even on [ an administration ’s ] radar screen ” ” ” . nonetheless , among economists , the emerging consensus is that about 80 % of losses in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades were the result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could have done no wrong in economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic , across a wide range of high-tech accuracy and massachusetts manufacturing industries manufacturing tradable goods . and they saw an economy growing much faster than north atlantic economies had when it possessed the same absolute and relative levels of economy-wide productivity . they had also seen an economy that , having , since reconstruction began after world war ii , outperformed europe ’s predicted growth in the world . a safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , claims that the present palestinian-israeli war really is about two world wars : the “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state that is worthy of the name . conversely , israel also fights two world wars : a war to defend its right to exist ; embraced on its integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip , and a jewish settlements located there . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in just a few of the 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers are in gaza strip alone , at 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the highest population densities in the world . israeli state support for the expansion of settlements is notable . there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders , partitioned jerusalem .
meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy have been experiencing a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and the political strains are growing more visible . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . but , again , they have lost their touch ; for now , they have been given a strong loss of credit . like aging magicians , they still experiment tricks that have been employed to impress , but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . the reactions from the market were to send spanish government bond rates even higher .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tension , maintaining a stable security balance will be no easy feat . but there are levers here , which can help . in the 1990s , when american president bill clinton ’s administration debated how to respond to china ’s increasing economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have found itself impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with the us ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton opted for a policy that could be called “ inclusive and insure . ”
in fact , the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading . trump no doubt succeeded , for example , in convincing some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . but that identity , and the way his adherents frame their interests , could change again . in fact , farage did not bring about brexit with all of himself . interests and identities are formed dynamically like politicians making offers of representation , and citizens are responding accordingly .
these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies supporting personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness possibilities . ” developing and rewarding the employees who possess such skills will be an additional , but welcome , challenge . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will enable drug companies to evolve into companies offering a broad array of health-care solutions . while the magnitude of many r & d organizations will be bound to downgrade such reforms , the complexities of managing and maximizing the impact of this externalities will demand new skills and capabilities over and above those of an eminent science . they will facilitate interactions across their network , in order to stimulate the development of innovation ecosystems .
the social world differs from the physical world , because it is man-made and hence almost infinitely malleable . so , in contrast to the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with better ones , but rather by an increase in its modeling library , with each shedding light at a different societal contingency . economics is not the type of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in any contexts . the point is not to reach the consensus about which the model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . economics is not the type of science in which there ever could be one true model that works best in every direction .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have stressed , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled laborers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , insisting that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , indian workers – particularly young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continually . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth momentum will hinge on its effort to build a flexible labor market , centered on the relaxation of outdated and complicated employment laws . today , the agricultural sector accounts for just one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . the legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed that of much of the developing world , as do china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of workers decreases .
equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese financing , credits , and investor insurance . at the same time , despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , the region ’s governments appear keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with change of their own . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted an “ investment partnership ” program ” to coordinate investment in the financing and transport infrastructure sector . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in industries like logistics , electricity , and information systems , while promoting interaction among business , community , and government leaders . taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerated growth in china ’s services sector , one of the critical building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing . but the key word here is “ eventually . ” it is far too early to expect major shifts in the major sources of aggregate demand . for now , much more important is the assessment trends in potentially powerful determinants of chinese consumption . eventually , the composition of gdp will offer a acid test for whether or not china has succeeded .
european multinational companies also hold big stakes in the chinese economy , and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets are now nearly double their size relative to america ’s . to be sure , the us presidency grants trump substantial power to shape us trade policies , so one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , nato does not produce broad-based us support for trump to return to closed borders . many europeans see trade as an opportunity rather than an opportunity ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism . europe , meanwhile , has moved in the opposite direction .
at that time , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , the aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin , to the tune of $ 19 million . manafort also offered to brief deripaska on what was happening in the trump campaign . after taking the jobs act , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , “ how did we use [ that ] to get whole ? ” deripaska under trump , who is subject to us sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to have handled gently with those who displease him .
kyiv – out of snowden , i watched over the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with a mixture of joy and adrift . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their yearning to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , as someone who led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , for a regime change is merely the first step in establishing a itself backed by the rule of law . indeed , like my country , ukraine is now demonstrating , after the country of revolutionary euphoria boils and normalcy returns , it is possible that democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lessons for the egyptian and tunisian democrats are that elections are not a matter of democracy .
that is the argument behind the world ’s greatest biometrics project , a multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians . nandan nandan nilekani , the chairman of infosys who quit his job to create a system , known as aadhaar , credits it with saved india ’s government an estimated $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicate and fake identities in government outcropping lists . above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identity itself . increasingly , we use our fingerprints , or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for shopping , and board airplanes . protecting the face of theft is apparent : what used to be a phone , a car , or a ticket that will work only for its legitimate owner ?
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a moment of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for their historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped to calm nerves around the world . many of the problems fueling the london summit remain untrue . anxiety levels may have already begun , in board rooms and stock markets ; but the everyday drama for survival continues . the un and the world bank predict that the direct – and indirect – effects of a prolonged period of economic meltdown are felt in the developing world .
roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , and we talked about force possibly to counter the dark rising tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . were we observing a view of someone with an intimate knowledge of several catastrophes to come ? or was she just the hottest girl at the party – the one avid adolescent asked to france and then hold forth on tightly ? the first is the municipal people who have poured into the streets of any large town in the country with the knowledge that comes down to overall votes – they , not trump , who won an election . the world now is writing a fresh novel novel novel , up . roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , and we discussed forces that may oppose the dark upheavals of vulgarity and violence under trump .
even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important positions of high-trust , as well as acclaim them as bipartisan statesmen , gives the next generation truly lousy incentives . perhaps it has traveled its own path to damascus , come face-to-face with what it had done and from whom it has been , reassigned , and sought to redress some damage to america and its long-run economic-growth prospects that it created . perhaps it has had its own path to damascus , come face-to-face with what it had done and from whom it has been , reas-enhancing , and eager to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic-growth prospects that it brought about . obama administration officials have reassured me that simpson has , indeed , clearly had a change of heart ; that he was a smart person with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he might sway reporters and obtain them in order to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( despite being unable to sway the actual legislators ) ; and that he would be a veritable asset for the commission ’s substantive work . and it is n’t as though congressional republicans think that they owe enough to simpson to swing a single vote in either chamber of the us legislature .
what demographers call the total rate of fertility is the average rate of living births per woman over her lifetime . the oecd average stands at about 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , produce fewer than 1.4 children per woman . the biggest tfr rate in recent years , however , has actually been in developing countries . over the longer term , a population claimed to be stable if the tfr stands at the replacement rate , amounting to slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and at 2.1 , for developed countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rate . the tfr for most developed countries now stands at well below replacement levels .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are , in fact , three important channels through which regulation can benefit an economy . one is the market-creating and market-growing role illustrated by the gsm of the gold standard . the worldwide reach of regulations implied enormous economies of scale in producing handsets and network hardware , so that prices fell precipitously , and interoperability between networks and across countries was far easier to achieve . many of the regulations play out in this standard-setting role . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were needed to gsm services globally .
laguna beach – when i contemplate the prospects of the global economy and markets , i have taken aback by the realization that the world has collectively placed a giant bet on three crucial outcomes : a shift toward a materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; avoidance of policy mistakes ; and the prevention of market crashes , too . while all three outcomes are doubtless desirable , the unhappy reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of the bet – more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with a anemic 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust real ( inflation-adjusted ) wage growth . another , more tentative assumption underpinning the bet on more inclusive growth is that the european union and japan will escape the mire of low growth and avoid deflation , which , by impelling households and companies to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance . it also predicts that china ’s annual gdp growth will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby allowing pockets of excess leverage in the shadow-banking system to be bailed out gradually , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to deflate from exports and public-capital expenditures to domestic consumption and private investment .
while many worried that the clinton impeachment was damaging the presidency , his main effect on presidential power was the other way around . republicans ultimately acquiesced in the democrats ’ belief that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent counsel whose investigation of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier led him to lewinsky . the two parties allowed the trump impeachment statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of us oversight , much to trump ’s advantage a generation later . to trump , clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings ended . what most americans believed was that impeachment was a mistake .
to be sure , establishment leaders have long sought to save their own skins by galvanizing the eu ’s criticism , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but this merely boiled down to ideas of alternative policies , while driving german voters to direct their opposition to the eu itself . though establishment parties had criticized the eu , for the most part they had not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , the two major parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , albeit they were internally divided . most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) to the brexit campaign .
weakening developing-economy incomes further is a slowing global demand slowdown and a crash of commodities that , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . and other emerging economies are unlikely to pick up the slack . to cap all this , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging assistance player , ” ” is now mired in an economic and political crisis , as is south africa . these challenges are compounding developing countries ’ new financing regulations , through new constraints on investment and finance , to the developing world .
for its part , iran looks relatively stable , at least compared to its arab neighbors . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear violation , and the us government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country with increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about its future . pakistan possesses a large nuclear-weapons program , and faces an expansionist jihadi insurgency that it previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far diminished , persistent doubt about the regime ’s sustainability is hard to prevent its asset diversion , or even its weapons capability , from reaching a significant issue . in case of the regime ’s collapse – a distinct possibility – would be hard to prevent the diversion of its assets or even the use of its weapons .
but the global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be sustained . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-enact sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose their will through extraterritorial measures through – say , by using access to the dollar clearing system as a foreign-policy tool – will impede coordinated action . as for climate-change considerations , the election of a person who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax crafted to damage american business is clearly bad news . for the uk , in particular , this may demands a willingness to disagree head-on with american foreign policy in a manner that certain the devotees of our “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . but this was no us-iran deal ; it was negotiated by six prominent powers and was endorsed by the united nations .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also being governed by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalation of regional conflicts . that would make the resurgence of a reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult . the clearest scenario , of course , is a combination of the two dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments bet more narrowly on a reform-oriented path , everything should be clear to everyone that the diplomatic task with concerning iran is far from finished . paradoxically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hard-liners , actually feels in the region better than the current one .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-president giulio tremonti famously repudiated the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks , and a creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls , was deemed unnecessary . ten years later , italy is no longer marking the land of prosperous banks and happy savers . the prolonged recession and economic malaise have dented the individual savings rate , while banks no longer had the resources to provide tranquility of many retail investors whose trust was severely eroded . the implied pact between banks and savers was breached in late 2015 , when four troubled local banks were bailed out and shareholders taken the hit .
kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of the young and middle class , but most of all to the peasants , the unemployed , those left behind in poland ’s burgeoning economy . by this link , kwasniewski 's presidency will be a sad paradox . many poles remain wary of the churchillian attitude towards democracy and are allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . speaking a lot on the future , therefore , rode to power saddled with the votes of the past . indeed , it is this sad paradox that , for many ex-communists in opposing the church pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal .
perhaps the chief risk is that the “ aid bureaucracies ” ” now traveling over to try to turn back at least $ 20 billion in aid so that much of it regulatory meetings , expert consultations and overhead reports , and further meetings . if donor governments really want the results , they should take the money out of the 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies , and pool it in one or two places , most importantly the world bank in washington and the international relief fund ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these un agencies would then hold several billions of dollars in compensation . a consensus has now reached its need to help smallholders , but the obstacles remain . “ partnerships ” from donor governments can become an expensive end in itself , simply delaying genuine action .
indeed , the brics may also be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the actual , ruble , the renminbi and the rand group . at the new delhi summit , the brics leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , particularly a common development bank , which can help mobilize savings among the countries . after all , the brics economies are probably still the single most important source of future global growth . indeed , the brics countries may well be dubbed the r-5 , after their members ’ currencies – the true , ruble , the renminbi , the renminbi , the renminbi , and the us . they represent more than a quarter of earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves .
on the contrary , she must change the conversation to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , the brics , like their european counterparts , are feeling overtaxed for spooked public services , and angry that their incomes have been falling throughout the past five years . as a result , many of them resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs – sentiment fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . the key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( above 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a surge in real incomes .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” it is subject to what milton friedman called “ “ long and variable ” lags . so policies to boost employment at the end of , say , , , this calendar year needed to have it brought a year ago to have its full effect . others , just like the united states , did not , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration did not try to boost employment . for example , some countries – indeed , implementing such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits .
for more advanced goods , the eu ’s value-added ( where the intangible part of the manufacturing process is in europe ) is pretty high . imposing trade defenses against such goods , while legally warranted , are likely to create problems for globalized european companies . many argue that these problems are the price that must be paid for ensuring that firms do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , while actions work as intended , the bulk of the trade defense-related measures probably are not directed against anti-competitive business practices . sectors with greater human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have a much higher cost of r & d than the shoe sector ; so manufacturing those on assembly lines in a low-cost country are probably not very costly compared to r & d.
similarly , environmental laws force firms to be liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including america , have long enshrined the principle that “ it is , society must pay for the harm that they inflict . ” motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult to make . after all , us corporations have no compunction ; it is merely the conscience of those running a company , and as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too apparent , that conscience often takes back a back seat to the profits . firms are far superior to consumers to assess their product ’s safety ; we all benefit knowing that our legal system has given corporations added incentives to seek attention to the safety of what they create . america ’s legal system makes sure that nonperforming firms and , particularly , an unsafe product are holding some of the consequences .
the us does not have to look far enough to make such a mission . the case for acting on the massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe , and even in china . why , then , does such little debate have arisen ? is this because those who oppose such debates reject the science of climate change ? or are those who deny the science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ?
forgotten that the treaty of nice is all about ? well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that attempt to slither around and through some practical issues , while deferring others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it includes all of the technicalities of voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly in the eu before the union can admit the new members . once again , irish voters are poised to vote neither yes nor no to a treaty of nice . enlargement is the greatest item on the european agenda , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone .
with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that had arisen over the last half-century were little understood and seldom ( if it ever was ) a prediction on the part of economists . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were starting to take off , for example , the nobel laureate willem myrdal wrote his asian drama , to diagnose the causes of asian poverty , and to explain why its poverty seemed ineradicable . simultaneous to this emerged , a strong consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import substitution policies then practiced by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . following mostly beggaring their adherents , these policies are now quite utterly discredited . the key point here is not just that economists got so much wrong , but that almost no one would get things right .
on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” showcased show by opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police , with the arrest of three presidential candidates in prison for the day . a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered won their voting cards , up from 16 % a year ago . now , it looks set to remain a presidential election ? but wade has postponed a legislative election , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and , later , by a presidential decree , to june 2007 . just two weeks ago , there had almost exactly been a daily debate about the possibility of the presidential election , being postponed indefinitely .
princeton , old nj – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for his description of dna structure , was in london not to support his memoir , boring people and any other lesson from life in science . harvard ’s former us president larry summers , he touched on one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty that his university had in recruiting female professors in mathematics and physics . ( he failed to suggest that men are on an average more talented in such fields than women , but that there is some reason for believing that men are more likely than women to be found at the top and in those fields , – and of harvard , of course – to only appoints people at the extremes of the outsize upper end . ) now one of our most prominent scientists of our time has blundered far more clumsily in the same minefield , with predictable results .
zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to the press for trade and military cooperation , and they also presumably engaged directly with private chinese firms . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . kenyan presidents , on the other hand , traveled to china just six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . mugabe ’s first-ever visit to china in 1980 came just six months after independence ; he made 13 more in his office during his office , and high-level visit by other zimbabwean officials were even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . state visits in the other direction have been more unevenly drawn .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is all the most often measured in numbers . by the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees have experienced “ protracted displacement ” : fleeing their homes for more than five years , and having no immediate prospects for return . school-age children comprising a substantial share of the world ’s displaced population . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half come under age 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out on an entire future just as well . but , for young refugees , the crisis also can be traced to an irreversible metric : the passage of time .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are another two charge : that he should have done more to stem the stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done even more to stem the subprime housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . in my view , they are misdemeanors , so they are misdemeanors . against them , one has to set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” achievement to avoid and minimizing recessions during his years in the fed . here , greenspan is holding his ground , graying not to blame . but just how grave are these policy-political crimes to which greenspan is now turns guilty ?
those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving boko haram ’s women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east imperiled christians and the arab world , and , of course , striving for an equitable peace between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . and it is better to know that history , if we are willing to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes , his ugliest scenes . those worthy causes include battling the jihadist decapitators , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east imperiled christians and the arab republics , and , of course , striving for an equitable peace between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a sinister caricature of its anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles .
in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell in the body contains a full code of dna enabled it to create a tadpole by cloning an adult frog . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to manage a complicated adult cell in mice in order to use regressing to their immature state forming stem cells . before that , stem cells – which may potentially be reprogrammed to develop to replacements for missing or damaged tissue – could be taken only from the early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy . it is too soon to discount genetics , but , owing to the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms to turn genes together on and off , thereby reversing how a cell develops without altering the genetic code – is gaining traction . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming and cells without altering their own genetic structure .
the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed piecemeal . the casualties of lives are inexcusable . but we do not need to wait until the root causes of displacement , state failure and civil war , are addressed . the financial costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant . claims could be reallocated and processed on a regular basis , and refugees could arrive in europe on a healthy and ready way to produce or study .
according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economist angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 amounted to $ 6,725 , amounting to 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that is about the same gap that existed between the us and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , japan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the world ’s 13 successful economies studied by the us growth commission . harnessing their latecomer advantage , japan ’s average annual gdp growth rate soared to 9.2 % in the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage , implied by the income gap between four slumps and the americas , enabled sugary drinks to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % and -9.2 % for 20 years , china ’s annual gdp growth potential should amount to a similar 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential output as a latecomer requires that china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reform , its different structural problems , and develop its economy on the basis of its comparative advantages .
in 2002 , the treaty of ’s signatories went further , committing to “ a significant reduction of current rates of loss due to the loss of biodiversity ” by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international treaties , the convention on biological diversity remains basically unknowable , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that neglect is a human tragedy , and it is far from clear what might be . for an extremely low rate of cash ending – and perhaps none at any stage of equilibrium – we could conserve nature , and therefore protect our own lives and livelihoods . the signatories have agreed to conserve biological diversity , through the saving of species and their habitats , as well as the ability to use biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably .
it remains to be seen whether the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and a powerful non-state actor in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will respond exactly the way that obama expects . it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel ; that he may be amenable to a fundamental shift in his position toward palestine ; provided obama makes an visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s nuclear program . like john kerry , speaker of the american senate ’s foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process ” is not some kind of street ” at which the onus is placed exclusively on israel . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . it remains to be seen if the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and a stronger non-state actor in his midst , like hamas and hezbollah , will respond the way that obama expects . in netanyahu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that an existential threat that paving the way for the establishment of a palestinian
so we decided last year to figure out whether that same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become even more negative . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meetings this january . just as imemo economists had predicted , the majority ( 66 % ) of those answering this question in moscow thought it was unjust . but a surprise was wrong : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it unfair ) . we administered the identical questionnaire in 2015 .
in the latter narrative of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-leveraging , and defaults : the common currency comes at odds with member states ’ needs . indeed , the prognoses for each case are starkly different . in the former version that interest rates converge and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities as the american federal reserve does in the american dollar , the euro has become “ the local currency . ” like a dysfunctional family , the north ’s “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ emerging ” economies . and how frequently are one heard about the sovereign restructurings of the local-currency ’s debt ?
that majority can erode the democratic checks , such as campaign-finance limits , which had been dealt a destructive blow by the citizens united decision in 2010 . moreover , republican obstructionism in the senate has put other at risk other levels of the us federal judiciary . at a 5 majority , the court ruled that corporations are all “ associations of individuals , ” making it necessary to ensure that no limits on how the amount of money-establishment corporations could be spending on political campaigns violated their first amendment of liberty . at the same time , republicans have a good chance of building a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which may last for decades , especially if it won the presidency again in 2020 . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s neighborhood and circuit courts filled down to its nadir in 50 years .
calderon ’s ’s task will not be an easy one . lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail their rule there . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also evident elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that the us has seen in venezuela and bolivia .
next year will prove crucial because it marks the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . next year will be crucial , because it marks the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . not one wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection . it is here that its political leaders should dedicate their efforts to it . a new german government , the european parliament election , and nato ’s new european commission will have emerged .
one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic aspirations the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or , in earlier decades , cheered on by the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . colombo , as china ’s economy slows and gdp growth across the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues . today , we asians are witnessing , on a nearly everyday basis , of fierce political assaults on tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
here is where sunni-shiite collaboration has come in . widely unnoticed , the iraqi sunni and shia centralists of the past few months have managed to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . more than a hundred of followers from ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have allied themselves with their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central-government administration in iraq ’s natural resources and postponement of the looming referendum to settle the status of the cities of kirkuk . in fact , change within the us , too , is noteworthy .
so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless at politics ; they simply wait for a genuine leader . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french will never arise for believing that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated european or boundless world . the political fervor seems , has not occurred in the land of rousseau and danton .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and aspirations running at an all-time low . the warsaw talks are the unraveling post on the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will attempt to forge an accord that avoids dangerous levels of climate change , defined as ending global warming by more than two degrees celsius . but it may not be like that : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most cost of living driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic weather risk , while trapping millions of people in poverty due to increasingly frequent , high-intensity , protracted droughts , floods , and storms .
and , indeed , the g20 has based few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for a “ wish list ” of mega-projects that any member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november . in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders issued a warning that fomenting investment in megaprojects risks irreversible , catastrophic damage in the environment . “ every year , we are already consuming about one and-a-half-planets worth its worth of resources , ” ” ” ” ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices are needed to ease , rather than exacerbate , this situation . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change has the curse of infrastructure and the long lived goods that lock societies into de-gas-intensive emissions pathways can be hard or extremely costly to change .
the fed , for example , committed to keep interest rates low , at least until the us unemployment rate falls to about 6.5 % – a move that has arguably raised long-term borrowing costs . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs , dramatically reducing interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . likewise , mark carney , in his initial policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term policy interest rates . while the effect of such interest-rate policy on an economy can not be determined in the absence of additional data , there are plenty of arguments in his favor . perhaps the most telling recent example of the us central bank , using forward guidance effectively , was ecb president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . first and foremost , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and putting its diplomats on the ground . this would not be an easy process and could well meet significant iranian opposition . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of its main interlocutor in the talks on its nuclear program , sanctioning the p-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and restoring iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communication and close the 44-day chapter of 1979-1981 . still , just as the american adopted a “ bomb and talk ” approach with the serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be willing to “ “ “ arm ” sanctions and talk ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
anyone watching the ipl still might be tempted to conclude that the twenty20 cricket movement , the “ instant ” mold , is really the american play deliberately rediscovered by indians . here was a venture that opened new vistas for firms and fired youthful imaginations to embody the kind of special-energies that their owners , promoters , players , and minions . other countries have followed suit , with the tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl has represented more than the league of sports ; it has signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india . in the ipl glitz , glamour , and excess lay an antidote to a hidebound statist mentality that has spawned india ’s economic stagnation in the past .
at a whim of the state , for example , they can be exonerated from paying taxes or having their posts and working unchallengeable by law . at the 20 th century 's close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) seems more like a " neo-feudal " state than a modern society . that superficiality results from the fact that , while communism was a thoroughly “ modern " notion , modernity in romania goes only by being skin deep . for here is a state where group , classes , even individuals struggle for the privileges that they are afforded , not from talent and work , but rather from the state 's status under which one belongs . nation banks , nation states approved by government societies ( trade unions , for example ) , large state enterprises act only differently in romania today than the feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
in 1947 , they rejected the un ’s partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in british palestine . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to soften the suffering of palestinian refugees . but the crucial problem is that , until now , at each historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . it was this failure that brought hamas to power . on the other hand , it is possible to introduce diplomatic means of releasing an israeli soldier and put a stop to launching qassam rockets from gaza into israel , a daily occurrence that challenged the credibility of the new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert .
alternatively , and for very different reasons , large majorities of asian elites await the rising possibility of an obama victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity through change . for them , the america is above all the strategic counterweight to the global balance of china . in their view , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and its vision of an america “ “ “ “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanging . ” in their view , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and its vision of an america “ “ “ “ “ “ bound ” to lead ” has been largely unchanged .
canberra – late last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump hurled through kindergarten insults to each other more than – “ rocket man ” on his suicide mission , ” said trump from kim ; “ “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” kim retorted – while threatening to reduce east asia ’s size into a post-atomic waste economy . now , in a stunning and dramatic recent development , the two are supposed to meet may . kim supposedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to speak straight to trump . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered with cautious realism . in fact , north korea is the nuclear problem emanating from hell , and president korea is only at a moment of slow growth .
nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to foster decent and appropriate standards of economic and political development across the continent , has stood at the heart of this policy . despite its homegrown problems and its loss of global visibility that accompanied nelson retirement , south africa remains perceived as an emerging superpower comparable to its aspiration to , say , brazil , india and nigeria . south africa is seeking a broader , more influential role reinforced by its apparent standing as a regional hegemon . such powers are seeking an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some instances a global one . they tend to have a proactive , assertive foreign policy and wish for more than the middle-power status quo , and limited niche-style influence enjoys by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia .
madrid – earlier this year , just as the american-led effort to mediate a middle east peace settlement was beginning to falter , turkey took up the leadership ’s work in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the syria conflict . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward , once again , to assume a leadership role in the caucasus . indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey suggested a black sea of economic cooperation . it aspires to join the european union ; it would bring the eu to our three borders , even as we , too , strives to join one day .
like a neighboring country , india would face daunting consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as is iran , which will not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and the shia became targets of a resurgent taliban . this is why , at least in the region , the “ bringing ” troops to early ” has become the prime objective of western policymakers engaged with the region . my fear is that we have not seen the last of al qaeda or the taliban . indeed , across the region , apprehension increases that as foreign troops leave out , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back into power . the west needs a step out before the bloodletting begins anew in earnest .
an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all of it is no market economy . a market economy needs to rest on the economic-policy principle of its profits and losses . moreover , governments should give insolvent banks credit to non-financial corporations , just as private customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings-bank savings by reforming insolvent banks ’ bad loans . and governments must respond to the banks ’ threats by declaring their willingness to let insolvent banks go their way accordingly . laws valid for all other firms should apply to banks .
but gross capital inflows are from emerging-market to emerging-market equity , through the big us banks , now implicitly as state-backed in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , “ too big to fail ” banks are the perfect places to park their reserves , just as the sovereign in question remains solvent . that was not a good idea , because it led to the massive ( for now ) us debt crisis of 1982 . but what will such banks do with the funds ? when a similar issued surfaced in the 1970s about what might be called the “ recycling of oil surpluses ” – banks in western financial centers extended borrowing to latin america , the communist poland , and communist romania – eventually .
when they give way , illnesses , despair , and deaths rush in . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat of african development . ” but transition plagues more than a health crisis ; signifying a deeper malaise . so set aside the fact that they are infectious to death and can be spread easily , or the notion that a fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility of the welfare state from the poor and sick , focusing merely on the economic consequences of the plagues of transition . the companies in south africa stagger from lost so many aid workers .
erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel to turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should deliver that year . but while this would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made prior strategic mistakes . that is why the next few months , in which turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . but , with turkey having so far failed to live up to the agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation that is not likely to happen – an outcome that has been made all the more plausible by the coup attempt .
yet over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as long as the palestinians remain oppressed and denied a nation-state , conflict will ensue . moreover , during his recent electoral campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would preclude the creation of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling ” the entire region . as he well knows , the settlements comprise a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . this is what we should be taken in his word .
heedless of its responsibility as an emergency lender of last resort allowed the banking system to collapse . it failed to prevent the money supply from contracting in the early part of the great depression . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the ensuing reforms were far-reaching . but those reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretion , more power to the board , and an even greater role for the new yorkers , all to enable the federal reserve system to respond more quickly and robustly in crisis . when financial stability hung on the balance in 1933 , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate prevented effective action .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article announcing that the us monetary-policy “ doves , ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , got the better of the “ hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . neither hawks nor doves ( nor anyone else ) expected that . the report was right but misleading , for it failed to mention why so little inflation is at stake in america today . the american federal reserve board has been pumping up trillions of dollars of reserves , but never having so much of the reserves that it generated so little monetary expansion . were the doves right or simply lucky ?
moreover , cutting birth rates that are extremely high in many lmics , would help ease the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing maternal and newborn health costs and immunization . by lowering the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . this is not simply good for maternal health . in fact , the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent an estimated 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . moreover , reducing birth rates that are extremely high in many lmics would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing maternal and newborn health costs and immunizing the proceeds .
at the same time , the saudis recoil under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam that is universally blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . against this backdrop , the kingdom is waging a fight to its enemies . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-the-fray de france , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much power . as defense minister , mohammad continued saudi politics on the part of anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at enormous humanitarian costs ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including that of denial of elementary rights for women – is under continuous scrutiny .
at the same time , america has accomplished many of its initial core goals . the us has failed to dislodge the taliban in afghanistan , and has entirely ruled out the country ’s possibility once again becoming a haven for terrorists . at the same time , america has achieved many of its initial core goals . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , together with the approaching reduction of america ’s military presence in the country , constitute a clear recognition of that . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump ’s keen to declare the end of the longest international conflict in the us history before his 2020 presidential election .
just five months earlier in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and the united nations . we have had enough of experts – some 300 from the public and private sector of 30 countries – to try to provide an answer to a simple question : “ what will it take ” to double private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? one useful tool in our efforts is the infrascope , ” ” ” ” a benchmarking index formed by the us economist ’s intelligence unit that evaluates the capacities of emerging-market countries across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . the ebrd aims to encourage the training of a critical mass of experts from the ten countries in our region , and we estimate that the certification could become as prized as a qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or a member of the un project ’s governance institute . emerging-market policymakers will make accreditation a good by demonstrating our capacity for applying them practically .
the obama administration has staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on their security and borders . the results are mixed , at best . the obama administration has staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on their security and borders . in the meantime , the israeli government wants to resume building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violations of international law and minimal peace requirements detailed in a “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to resume construction of settlements in the occupied territories , to total violations of international law and minimal peace requirements detailed in a “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the european union , and russia ) .
that is exactly what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico pursued a moratorium on foreign-debt-servicing servicing costs in august 1982 sparked an operation of an operation crisis of the type that followed . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign lenders . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions or even the entire class of emerging economies . the same sort occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis erupted in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , quickly spread to other east asian countries . then contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , especially short-term developed-country investors , begin to withdraw funding from other countries in order to cover the losses they incurred in the economies that hit the crises .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff members at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , arguing that it does not contribute to economic growth . but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . in fact , despite its recent efforts to increase assistance effectiveness , progress on this front has been modest , at best , not least because average financing for imf projects has fallen by more than two-thirds . in fact , debt is another side to the evolving dilemma . over the past decade , the imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative and its extension , the supplemental multilateral debt relief initiative , have made substantial progress toward debt sustainability more sustainable .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ november election for the 2012 presidential vote – which will , alas , continue to rage in the summer – must be an appalling display of what america and their leaders seem to know about foreign policy . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by conveying some useful points about his handling of china , punctuated by a brief display of his own mastery of the mandarin , some other us candidates responded with derision . to have even known the chinese perspective , it seems that he was disqualifying for a huntsman who soon ended his candidacy . indeed , ignorance seems to be the source of strength for the candidate . after the debate reveals the fact that neither candidate seeking to challenge us president barack obama is particularly keen to detail the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those who did not involve american troops .
i helped launch the first-ever safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , of nigeria last april . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes the construction of better schools , connecting schools to police stations through celltelecommunications , creating community safety groups that are consisting of teachers , parents , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – an initiative to promote safe zones for education . the fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund was established at the un . its first set of schools has now received funding , and the first cohort of the most at-risk girls has been relocated to government schools in safer rural regions .
and that shift would take place at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) this month , it must address more than future greenhouse-gas targets . at the same time , they must address the damage to people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not play to war .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government leaders to forecast continued robust growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut in the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not occur . the rise in food and energy prices had outpaced gdp in us nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while the continuing decline in home prices lowered the wealth of most households . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just over 1 % in january , down from a previous quarter of last year .
once again , we are told , future labor-market participants should be endowed with job-targeted education and portable social-security craft , to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . likewise , toyota has constructed its own high-tech manufacturing technician program to give a pathway to students looking for corporate careers . instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment , that is , using big data to match people with the jobs that they will need to remain consumers . for example , it emphasizes miami dade university ’s “ programs in animation and game development , ” working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . in the us , it emphasizes miami dade university ’s “ programs in animation and game development , ” working with companies like pixar animation studios and google .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year ’s united nations general assembly report on progress toward meeting the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger is actually increasing , as is the number of cases of malaria . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the consequences of addressing climate change are emerging much faster than anticipated .
as a result of the program , almost all basque municipal governments have adopted such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas such as mobility , waste management , and economic development . the basque country has established a program called local-agenda 21 , which was designed to support the creation of local-sustainability plans throughout the region . together , these local plans are driving the region ’s sustainable development forward , with knowledge sharing among municipalities laying the foundations for continued progress . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 billion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to growth in its economy as a whole . meanwhile , south australia has moved through australia ’s most supportive regulatory framework for renewables investment , allowing renewables ’ share in power generation , from almost zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in a desperate effort to do something – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , impose “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of the us dollar resulting from its increasingly overvalued currencies . but the trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domesticationary measures , because they did little to arrest the downward spiral in terms of both output and prices . they did nothing to stabilize the world ’s rickety banking systems . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility , allowing their currencies to depreciate , countries “ stuck to the gold standard ” found themselves in a deflationary quandary . in the 1930 ’s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas tightened the most , were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates , namely the countries left on the gold standard .
madrid – since its inception in oslo in nearly two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . hostage of an impossible grand coalition and possible settlement movement of free-size fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s central minister is severely under threat . today , the clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant to the palestinians . at the same time , israel ’s arab counterparts hardly seem to be in a better position to challenge them . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of palestinians nor rule by any democratic means .
this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness , especially among men , manifested in rising non-violent participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . the result is a vicious circle in which governments find it increasingly difficult to do what is needed . countries experiencing high and rising levels of economic inequality often face political instability and political dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , lose credibility , and becomes choked off by gridlock , growth suffers , as well as its chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . but government intervention is critical to resolving the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address alone .
the tribe can be a club , a clan , or a nation . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliation , the celtic being catholic , and rangers protestant . the vestiges of such markings remain : two of amsterdam are still tawed by provincial opponents as an “ jew club ” . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliation , are left with religious affiliation , the celtic nature of being catholic , and rangers protestant . but a union of shared race or religion is not essential , either .
at the same time , it is still about to spend more equitably . in a new report to be launched in the imf-world bank spring meetings , save children documents a glaring chasm between health hazards that are heavily skewed toward the world ’s poorest children and the contribution to public expenditures – is often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of the major central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit disproportionately from the sdgs . in the language of the agenda , “ no one should be left behind . ” the world bank could help to improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment , by working with the un and its national agency for monitoring and high-level reporting , at which disparities in key metrics , from mortality to education , are being narrowed .
my personal memory of north koreans , now more than ten years old , is of poor and depressed land . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice price has tripled , while electricity consumption has been down by more than two-thirds since just two decades ago . my trip in april 2002 was rather optimistic . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor while he was entering the opera house that today signifies the public mourning of his death . pyongyang , the young capital , was dark and deserted , illuminated by the cavalcade , who takes us from personal housing to an opera house , just to return to darkness behind us .
the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be full and equal before society is to break the cycle of early marriage and birth . but there are other gender targets that consider , too . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over an age of three years . female employment soared , and women aged 15-21 grew by 5-6 % less likely to marry or bear birth in this period . such profound change is no easy feat , but when girls are able to remain in school longer and have the decent job opportunities available after graduation , they are likely to marry , and bear children later in life .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s comments , us vice president mike pence warned just three weeks later that had north korea failed to produce a deal , it actually met with libya ’s fate . choe son hui , a vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to “ irregular and outrageous ” belligerence . the north was not interested in a dialogue directed at a coerced “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the “ world knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor iraq , ” which has encountered miserable fates . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered a furious reaction to the north : “ we do n’t hide our feelings of repugnance toward him .
with the us current account deficits now above 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is on the rise precipitously . after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – suspended only a brief slowdown from 2000 to 2001 – the united states accumulated an enormous stock of its foreign liabilities , equivalent to more than 25 % of its gdp . the result was a precipitous decline in the value of the dollar , which depreciated by more than 50 % against its deutschemark . but no country can continue to accumulate debt forever – and what might not last sooner rather than later must end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit peaked to $ 120 billion , roughly a third of today ’s levels at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high point of the presidential contest to the low levels of its political sex scandal in one short week . for many non-americans , the election brought the welcome and reassuring victory of barack obama , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia , was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a larger whole : an america that is living up to its promises . the election reminded many americans that america is a country committed to and capable of progress – moving forward toward an ideal vision . for many americans , the election brought the welcome and reassuring victory of barack obama , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound .
in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s establishment was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit goal of impeding beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is one reason why the swiss move came as something surprise . the first casualty would have been whatever a small bit remains for international policy coordination . the second would have been the world ’s international monetary system . it is true that the cfa franc has appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany . the call by björn hamad horgia , the afd ’s state leader in the town of thuringia , for an “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd leader alexander gauland ’s referendum on “ disposing ” germany ’s ’s ’s ’s integration minister of turkish origin “ in anatolia , ” repelled eu voters . a second frequently cited cause of germany ’s resilience against populism is its economic strength . the country ’s ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record low , and gdp has been growing at almost 10 % since 2013 .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment of individuals and online media , for spreading what is called fake news and disinformation that “ disrespects ” the state . us president donald trump is attempting to move in the same direction . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and his “ enemy of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred label for news media : the lügenpresse ( lies ) party . massive fines have been levied on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . in recent years , china and turkey – the two olympic-level jailers of journalists – have ramped up their repression .
blair ’s africa commission , like the un millennium development project , found that africa needs about $ 50 billion a year in aid to china by 2010 . without the benefits of free trade , much of the rural africa campaign struggles for the subsistence level . bush may think that while america does a lot to help overcome these problems , the truth is that american aid is minimal . america ’s fair proportion is one of the world ’s roughly $ 15 billion a year . yet official u.s. aid to africa amounts to just $ 3 billion a year , with much of that covering salaries for american counseling consultants rather than investing in africa on their own needs .
initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear tests were uniformly critical , culminating ( so far ) at un security council resolution 1718 , which condemns the test , require that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a wide range of military , political , and economic sanctions . how the world responds to north korea probably will affect the calculus of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of finger-pointing is on nuclear triggers will be a far tougher — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . the risk is that we may be fast approaching a tipping point . in fact , north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india and pakistan .
cambridge – navarro is one of america ’s most extreme “ china hawks . ” the titles of his two most recent books , the death by china ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means to the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be the director of the us national business council , the new white house policy store to be established on a par with – and within – the us national security council and the national economic council . ross and navarro have also been co-made of an economic-policy position paper published on trump ’s campaign outpost that stretched any semblance of credibility . industrialist wilbur ross , ceo of columbia , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals .
accordingly , the euro-dollar exchange rate has barely budged ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . but , because policymakers consistently threatened to exit qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained monetary stimulus . the clash of interests between eurozone member states is a straightforward one . eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” by monetary-policy decisions . the ecb then proclaimed victory , and prematurely withdrew qe just as the eurozone ’s economy slowed .
for centuries , western law had arrived with colonial rulers . even after europe ’s ’s ’s ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in postcolonial countries . in many cases , such imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or were adhered to only in form , not in substance . american antitrust law , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , led to only six criminal prosecution in 30 years . experience suggests that importing laws and legal standards rarely works well .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society typed , “ just as the traditional paper ’s business model is to get revenues done not from its readers but from advertisers ; personal genomics companies see the potential profit not from the consumers themselves but from the compiled databases , likely in the form of selling their access . ” this new development , called the “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver a better-calibrated drug dosages and more effective therapies . but other firms have been accused of getting more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than using genetic testing . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , yet it seems curious that customers are effectively paying a firm for having a privilege donating their dna to its database . drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase biobanks on which they can test their products for differential responses , according to patients ’ own genetic make-up .
even with german-level interest rates , greece would still have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still a fairly large and well out of today ’s deficit . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to refuse greek bonds as its collateral . the question now is whether a change of coupons – possibly coupled with an extension of maturities – would have been sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . european banks holding greek government debt might maintain that it is worth some full value . and , with the face value of greek debt unchanged , the psychic drag on expectations and investment might linger .
the combination of social polarization , insufficient institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . against this background , “ neoliberal ” reforms , like the prompt economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund , left economies far more vulnerable to external shocks . on the contrary , “ neoliberal ” reforms , such as the prompt economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund , left economies far more vulnerable to external shocks . the current-account deficits grew , in the wake of frequent foreign-exchange crises . venezuela is a case in point .
in fact , portugal is so explicitly tuned to the consumers ’ tastes that change may indicate rate change almost instantly in a society . movies produced for their sexual gratification of consumers are revealing the cultural norms of restrictions , transgression , and otherness . interestingly , many of the purveyors of pornography initially felt that improved quality video made their product more desirable . nevertheless , high output values actually appeared to have been less popular in nature . so a “ casual labor market ” was adopted in fact , similar to the designs of worn out and ripped jeans .
new delhi – clowns have always played a role in the politics of politics . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done both – and still do – . but she never aspired to lead a country . either the grand clown and the tycoon are well suited to become a democratic leader in their own party . either the us clown and the tycoon are well suited to be a democratic leader in their own right .
eventually , towns and urban areas that drive the bulk of the new wealth creation will provoke a counter-movement . during an earlier era of urban-based dynamism , in the early sixteenth-century printing age , rich merchant families built low-rent housing that they then were allocated to the poor . one such project , the fuggerei complex at augsburg , germany , still supplied lower-rated social housing to that day . if they wanted to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , they will need to come up with bold solutions . where they did price or otherwise eliminate those earning less , they will sacrifice the kind of openness that made them attractive in the first place .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré , at the dawn of the twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that during the dreyfus affair had exiled in the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of french algeria that he ultimately failed to understand them . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s ’s leaders . for what needs to be done to hold territory that the republic ’s almost disappeared to the fn is a political courage of some sort that , for now , it is in short supply . georges clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré , in the early 1950 ’s , did not pander to almost half of the electorate that during the dreyfus affair had exiled oneself from the republic .
after the end of the cold war , however , many predicted that its institutional embodiment , the north atlantic treaty organization ( organization ) , would fade away . it did not , for us , because our bond is based not only on shared threats , but on shared ideals . and we know that those landings have created a unique bonds among our continents . that bond remains vital to preserving our own values and our own security . it could no more fade than our yearning for freedom might wane .
i hope that this issue does not deride the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to demonstrate to the world that their country has re-emerged as one of the world ’s leaders . china does not so much of favors by remaining a time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s when discussing that issue . indeed , it has gotten far beyond their political system ’s capacity to function a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . the size of china has been so smart in so many areas .
sarajevo , ever since the dual disaster of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election , there has been widespread anxieties about a “ global wave ” of populism , as well as hand-wringing over the follies of the so-called outright democracy . in the uk , the voters have been asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-or-out question ; in the united states , 2016 republican party primaries pass over for fiscally irresponsible electorates and radical democrats . ever since , there have been calls to re-empower the “ gatekeepers ” of the party , ” who is a polite way of saying that leaving the unwashed masses should hold as far as political decision-making is possible . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the united states could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
berkeley – to resolve a problem is not enough . one actually has to implement a solution , and be willing to change course if it turns out to have not been well known as before you actually thought . that is the message of two other recent books , which , together , tell you everything you need to know about the financial crisis of 2008 : what caused it , what could be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things were not yet finished . the first book is the shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , beginning by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for the economic catastrophe that will continue to shape the world today . one actually has to implement a solution , and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know very much as you had thought .
this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like that typically enforced as part of established media organizations . a second feature of the digital information age , a directly byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receiving our information directly from our institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , today that we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . such a peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer rooted in a common set of facts .
of course , many other factors are at work , but television-driven societal atomization should not be understated . robert putnam , america ’s prominent scholar ’s declining sense of community , has discovered that ai-oriented tv viewing is the central explanation of declining “ social capital , ” ” ” the trust that binds communities together . americans simply trust each other much less than they did a generation ago . time that they have been spent together in communities is now spent alone in front of the screen . furthermore , heavy tv viewing has given rise to social fragmentation .
lurking behind china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ambition in space is a cold war spirit , one that continues to permeate the inner circles of the army high command whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . since the 1980s , however , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts . nevertheless , since the 1980s , america ’s has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts . it flatly contradicts china ’s repeated assurances of its leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible actions remains another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will be a peaceful nation once it grows strong .
temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or crime behavior : all are said to reside within their genes . every time a new , potent scientific formulation appears to have to pass a period of abusive application . nowadays , it is the turn of some molecular genetics as well . illegality and wrongful were artfully cloaked as incontrovertible , the science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” distinguished scientists proclaim that our most destiny is inscribed in the dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , insist that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone and ornamental façade has left silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied the rise of empires and plummeted . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city-state ; yet , for five days each summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by a russian bank . at a time when russia and ukraine still seem to be largely at war with each other , it is policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some of russia pack the streets of port lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and its geographic location , ukraine is strategically vital to the west . yet it is also where one can find hope for europe ’s promise .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of president barack obama ’s implemented and proposed policies , but tentative read indicates limited short-term benefits at great long-term costs . ( intervening in the contractual relations ex post to enforce the demands of the union is an emerging characteristic of the us administration . ) obama has outsourced the details of america ’s $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and , no wonder , the old house barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . several months later , just 4 % of gdp was spent , and the us federal government is brow-beating state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small fee for some unionized workers , or lose $ 7 trillion in stimulus funds . the administration is exploiting a crisis atmosphere to enact a vast agenda that would re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to areas like health care , power , and distribution .
moreover , worrying is that the trump administration hardly ever talks about upholding the postwar liberal international order . the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , one in which america should look beyond itself . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereigns from escalating conflicts with one another , an all-out war risks will escalate substantially . as europeans well recognize , there is no way of building a wall in the mediterranean . to be sure , the us claims trump ’s withdrawal of its commitment to europe ’s security .
meanwhile , the american consumer has benefited immensely from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the economy . consequently , american employment has shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting higher-income growth in america , too . the old model has served both sides well in less than three decades . china ’s growth has been fueled by labor-intensive exports made more competitive by technology transfer and know-how from the american and other western countries . this , coupled with massive chinese public - and private-sector investment ( enabled by high - and , lately , by savings ) , has underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese .
this is not the first time that nato has seemed on its final legs . many had arrived at the same conclusion prior to 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on beyond nato missions in afghanistan . then came trump , whose administration had pulled the rug out from under europe on legs , deserted american leadership as part of the rules-based international system and pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump is demanding that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . when russia annexed crimea and pulled warfare into eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently pushing the u.s. annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . as a result , the u.s. federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and that will likely push up short - and long-term interest rates as much as the u.s. dollar . meanwhile , the rate of inflation is rising in other key economies as well as soaring oil prices are contributing additional inflationary pressures . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with a modest fiscal drag will pull growth from 3 % to just below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was ill-conceived , america 's economy is now overheating and inflation is rising above target .
that is because the desert in the region routinely has a crust , what arabs might call “ desert skin , ” consisting of sand and the clay range , that baked together , or sintered , into heat and sun . sometimes this crust is strong enough to carry a person , and sometimes not , much like the difficult ice crroll that develops on the snow in colder climates . increased sanders ’ drift was one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war . under the crust of it , and then , the sand particles will be loose . in fact , perhaps we and british soldiers have only themselves to blame .
the sense of entitlement that sustained such the male fecklessness has steadily been eroded almost ever since – a process that , like so much so in american popular culture , play out on tv . other women , like their self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly have sexual relationships with mafia figures just as surely as much as they do now . popular series like “ good wife ” ” show the pain and misery of political spouses who are expected to keep rigid upper lip service and ladylike demeanor in confronting behavioral double standards . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s occurred just as well , in other arenas , reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation of the image from a charming playboy to an dangerously compulsive agredator . likewise , the series blended mad men , ” ” with his dashing of advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , the plumbs in the face of behavioral double standards .
one serious truth about the last year is that financial-market problems lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated figure – but with good old commercial banks revealing an uncanny ability to create trouble through excessively risky gamblers , whether in lending to emerging markets or to the likes of ltcm . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . amazingly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in credit and derivatives at ltcm , of about 2 % of the bank ’s total credit and loan exposure to only a single hedge fund ! the banks that lent enormous sums , mostly unbankrupt , to ltcm , are the same ones that ran from around $ 175 billion of short-term borrowing to the five east asian developing country ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear and yanked out of tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 . ltcm also betray some truths about financial-market crises .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination receives great attention nowadays . while adam smith began us on the optimistic belief that it would take care of the invisible hand , in the intervening period to have uncovered all kinds of market failure , informational imperfections , and motivation problems , attaching the rise of rules , regulations , and other forms of government and societal intervention . even the world economic forum was transformed into an “ international organization for public-private cooperation . ” a plethora of learning centers for entrepreneurship and government relations were formed , with researchers producing a vast literature on how to design , analyze , and evaluate public-private partnerships . to be sure , private-sectorture-focused coordination was the essence of economics for the last 250 years .
new york – donald trump ’s president , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . the recovery from damage trump is inflicting on the institutions and political culture in america may take years ; if it does , the economic cost could be substantial . but , while the trump administration has boosted america ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other ledger leadership is rather grim . while it is easy to be cynical ( some are arguing that a new agenda is merely an excuse to cut funding off from existing retraining programs ) , the notion that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and college practices is a good thing . for starters , a broad range of studies , from the work of the late us economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of james a. robinson , finds that institutions and political culture are the single most powerful determinants of long-term growth .
putin is perplexed by the fact that he can counter the threat posed by the slow pace of growth . most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at a pace well above 2 % , without any other sustained surge in oil prices . but , in fact , 2 % growth ( a venerable pace for an advanced economy ) would represent a harbinger of russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and could put a brake on domestic stability as long as jobs are lost in the critical manufacturing sector . so far , his main proposal has been the much-heralded “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union between russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . this would provide a platform for re-establishing trade , transport , and other links among the former soviet states and thus capture the regional markets for russian products , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political clout in its old neighborhood .
with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy picture of their countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ institutions , no longer in command , we can hope that its assessment will be more robust than the earlier stress tests were conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those trials , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild confidence . the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to become visible before a takeover , in order to avoid being blamed . the several banks that passed with flying colors were soon obliged to raise new capital . but the creation of the european banking union was not the only important change to europe ’s financial regulation since the crisis .
the key to ensuring the future of europe ’s social-security systems , and therefore its social model , is faster growth . the barriers to growth are well known , and have existed for a while without receiving it . not all has succeeded ; on the contrary , the successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . and , once again , it is difficult to see how more europe would improve . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically easy way of generating growth , italy already did .
but an utter lack of transparency allowed russian companies , with their subsidiaries registered in third countries , snap much of their new offerings . typical was the russian holding company promyslennye ’s investory ( industrial investors ) , who succeeded putin as a major gold mine , and then more than half a plant producing state-owned gold alloys . many state-owned enterprises were privatized for ten times the sums yielded in asset sales under the previous government of edvard shevardnadze . gazprom ’s goal is to control not only the georgian gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russia ’s gas to both georgian and armenia . russia ’s main foreign-policy tool in georgia is gazprom , its state-controlled gas monopoly .
a death survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that such conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million lives have ended as war and its lingering effects in most of the past decade . yet , even at a time when fighting has been less intense by congo suffers from its indirect effect on the war . as always , its principal victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . renewed fighting , approaching eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the “ goma agreement , ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of normalcy returning to the eastern part of congo . today , one-quarter of a million people are in the running , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory and with hardly any access to aid .
the same might be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . henry kissinger once said that “ peace ” can be achieved only through hegemony , or through a balance of power . the same might be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . henry kissinger once said that “ peace ” can be achieved only through hegemony or by a balance of power . like all economic activity , he thrives if property rights are honored , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariff and other barriers are removed , and the result forth .
for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . our educational system can no longer afford to wall itself off the industrial world . in fact , externships offer transparency and accountability for educators , and imbue the spirit of predation with their students . when properly integrated in a student-for-entry student , externships can provide a competing center for university app essays and campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from the competing hordes of top-scoring takers . for smes , externships provide much-needed , creative manpower .
but a few million americans – blacks , white , and hispanic – now live in per capita incomes of under $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . finding shelter in the united states on that income is so hard that it is almost certainly much worse in the america than it is at $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . the towns and cities that have lost their factories to globalization have similarly lost their tax base and are finding it hard to maintain high-quality schools – the escape route for the next generation . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills , and court minorities protect centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class whose children find no room in this brave new world .
others might use services like intercom to derive insight into their user ’s own interests from their preferences from their music to their favorite hobbes , in order to offer more personalized services . indeed , many online services now offer to connect their users with their facebook friends or linkedin connections , or to recommit to activities or restaurants that rely on past behavior or current location . once a company identifies which users have the most leverage – well-known bloggers , for example , it may offer a better treatment , in the hope that they will recommend doing some better . some people might not want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities that attempt to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with previously unknown entities knowing so much about them . website startups may even want to inspect their users ’ profiles on the angel list of angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of funding .
french catholics now feel like their historically privileged position is being hit , through islam ’s rise and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and through legislation that have increasingly violated their way to live . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics are finding themselves in the right . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism , and responded to their status anxieties by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholic , and america becoming more diversified , its would-be zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon the political ascendance have shown , they can not simply be written off yet . french politics has no analogue to the american alt-right in name , with its kind of conspiracy theories to speak up , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign .
for better or for worse , our central banks are managing the quantity and flow of money , by abolishing or supplementing the stocks held by private banks . and vice versa if the authorities want to cool down the economy . when it comes to stimulating economic activity , central banks buy from private banks in commercial loans , mortgages , deposit insurance , or other assets . as a result , the banks then get more cash to lend . but the more successfully libra becomes , the more the money people transfer from their bank accounts to its libra wallet , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy .
despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution , and including two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward america , and the iraq war was not at first that a controversial security policy has undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the united nations , whereas french president jacques chirac sensed in his widespread mistrust of a sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . polls show a similar shift following the suez crisis of 1956 , the great vietnam war in the late 1960s and early 1970 ’s , and deploying intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls show that up to three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . with america ’s 2003 invasion of iraq , french-american relations reached a low .
after all , an essential tenet of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes , wherever they operate . they can do so in multiple ways , such as through investments in educational quality , funding science and technological research , and the construction of efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , that , according to the international monetary fund ’s 2015 report , lose over $ 200 billion per year from fiscal avoidance by us multinationals . when countries create tax regimes efficiently to steal tax revenues from others , the result also leaves fewer money for education , medical care , poverty-reduction programs , and climate-change measures . this should not be allowed , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless their taxes cuts .
further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stocks and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened policy and policy uncertainty . what ’s more , the accelerating expansion of the etfs coincided with the bull markets . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched us stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened geopolitical and policy uncertainty . broad-based market returns are likely to be less frequently lower , with episodes of volatility likely to become more frequent . what ’s more , the rapidly widening of the etfs coincided with the bull markets .
cambridge – economics teaches that a measure of an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and diverse of goods that he or she can consume . no one can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric vision of the economy has produced plenty of fruit . consumption possibilities are at a maximized , by providing firms with the leeway they need to participate in the new technologies , the sharing of labor , economy of scale , and mobility . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis . consumption is the goal ; it is the means to it that production .
some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . the internet now connects almost half the world ’s population and another billion , just like some 20 billion devices expected to be interconnected in the coming five years . but further expansion is not guaranteed , either . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be extremely costly to the world , but this is one of the potentially possible futures outlined in a world of global internet governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the fragmentation as it implies that the end of the internet is a real threat .
that has sounded like a convenient experience , perhaps a learning experience , for young men , who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but it was hardly a moment of inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal showed itself unable to end america ’s great economic malaise . by contrast , america ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , has helped lower energy prices and wiped out america ’s dependence on foreign oil . likewise , much of its swift advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations such as smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example , that have been indigenous to america .
mgi has identified several interventions around the world that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures that have proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in the places that they study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment , and keeping girls in school . and an estimated 445 million people will need improved access to safe drinking water – a component of reduced unpaid care work carried out by women in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and in nongovernmental organizations . it will require additional investment , creating job opportunities for women , and deploying measures to help women move into more productive work .
notably , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments are benefiting from coercion , banned according to international law , to repatriate or redrawn refugees . the unhcr , as currently conceived is not the autonomous , nonpartisan agency it claims to be . its other major multilateral agency for migration , the iom , actively assist in returning migrants , asylum seekers , refugees , and internally displaced persons to their place of origin , or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like the unhcr , governance issues are revolutionizing the iom . strongly dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , they are beholden to their interests , and always have the political backing they need to get the jobs done .
with political gridlock blocking an appropriately sound fiscal response at the end of 2008 , the united states congress passed an annual budget , a essential component of responsible economic governance in five years – after which central banks were forced to bolster economies artificially . to do this , they ended up relying on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures , like quantitative easing , to spur growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold a disproportionately large share of their financial assets . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and opportunity , left behind by unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their fiscal bills , including through the so-called inversions by moving their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions .
all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in a populist clothing party – that is , a pluto-populist group . according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white-collar supporters in rural areas would vote on the basis of nationalist and religious sentiment , and his antipathy toward secular coastal elites rather than on their own financial interests . but why has his base allowed trump to get away with pursuing policies that usually end up harming them ? but how long can anyone expect to endorse a “ god ” and gun ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” ? and even an administration ’s plan to favor skilled jobs over unskilled workers will not necessarily lower the country ’s legal immigration rate .
unfortunately , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . whereas every other large european country abolished military conscription in recent decades , in recent decades russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens , from 18th to 27 , are bound to serve as moscow for 12 months . the rotterness received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians are deemed special or significant ( 32 % are not ) . another soviet military legacy is obligatory conscription ’s government . exemptions are based on medical conditions , with university students and staff members of certain organizations ( such as the police ) in the state .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a profound and profound crisis , albeit perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers , more or less twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg , and comprising a combined population of 10.5 million . it once was a pillar of socioeconomic dynamism and influence in the roman republic and the empire . the first african region to be christianized , it was the land of the saint augustine , and the main source of catholic evangelism in africa . it is also packed with celebrity and moderation in terms of its climate , history , and culture .
since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the one success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule . at the same time , khashoggi ’s disappearance has merely deepened their anxieties . true , any arab – indeed , virtually anyone – knows perfectly well who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist must mask the guilty verdict speaks volumes about the fears that are felt by independent journalists in the arab world . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists swindle , while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power .
third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign-wealth funds . it will be difficult to roll back financial liberalization , but its downsides , including greater systemic risk , require a broad set of reforms . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and standardized ways to ensure that liquid secondary markets for them can emerge . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced in place . first , more information and transparency about the complex assets and on which they are held are needed .
and yet it is just one of the multiple domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , resist non-existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism . arabs must take control of their own agenda and become the primary force that defines their own future , and that of their countries . of course , they should continue to engage with the outside world , reinforcing their own strategic relationships and alliances . but they , too , must become less dependent on others for one another .
this conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation was harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to boost manufacturing output and employment was to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws that protect workers . that wisdom prevailed not just in india ; it had influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for this argument is a paper by timothy besley and robin burgess ’s use of production data across indian states for a period 1958-92 . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not adopt such regulations . now a new paper by servaas storm has effectively dissolving another famous neoliberal economics trope : the argument that labor markets “ rigidities ” depress output and employment .
britain ’s economic prospects have increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in spain or california . swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any semblance of border controls . on the frontlines , it is the at hand that will prove to be the hazards of august . in france , security fears increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies in general . a recent political cartoon has shown british bombers off the mission , with one pilot saying to the eu , “ things look a long way to bomb a few young men out of south london . ”
such laws , already passed but not entirely implemented , should be the catalyst for a new intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between leader and people , and a progressive hollowing out of their democratic institutions . given this history , it is noteworthy that came to power in his landmark speech the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and debate and how to everyone work together for venezuela ’s good . he emphasized that both chávez and socialism voted for the people . meanwhile , every debt-service entity – all of them – now obey chávez . after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he suggested deepening his revolution with the new laws governing the organization of society and economy .
at the same time , the products of routine metabolism may also hurt them . if the damage occurs at the key genes regulating the cell ’s rise , it may lead to the development of cancer . genes can be harmed by environmental factors , such as radiation and chemicals . our bodies treat the integrity of our genes in order to preserve the integrity of our own genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . occasionally , however , the damage is not being corrected .
ithaca – the internet has once been hailed as a powerful , democratizing force that enabling innovative start-ups to compete with established companies , disrupting entire industries , and creating new ones . but , as some of those startups have grown into behemoths , they have turned that force on its head . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now essentially owns it , and rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the global inequality problem . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the american could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
still , one is left wondering whether this new , collaborative bonhomie and the ethnic bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between america and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , although america drew strength from the “ melting pot ” ideal , and from president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high water mark for diversity , americans have frequently displayed a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants , drawing too close to power . indeed , in announcing the new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , ” we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting on their own . ” in particular , in the chinese , fears of divided national loyalties and of the “ fifth columnists ” have been intense . indeed , in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu has described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , ” we can accomplish more than [ by ]
on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a whopping 0.6 % of gdp this year . greece ’s economic weakness is pushing up the current level of its deficit . indeed , five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and strengthened transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have ballooned the overall deficit with nearly 5 % of greek gdp . likewise , this implies that if greece were to escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , at both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen jiabao ’s visit , “ india and china can jointly reshape the world order . ” in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , its defense minister referred china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke of china as india ’s number one foe . the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a vast change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations after their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian ocean hosts ’ fixation on achieving an equal standing with china . on the contrary , on more recent visits to india , i learned my hosts allusion to their need to learn from china .
são paulo – last year , the director of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has passed new fiscally counterproductive regulations . while one can debate the appropriateness of holding up accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order for which banks increase their capital has been greatly justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . because hildebrand was independently wealthy , such an approach would not readily work with him . so , has he gotten the stick , rather than the carrot , in the first place ? fortunately , for the most part , we have a good independent considered system , but this time with a help of it .
second , and partly as a result , virtually all eurozone countries ’ public debt is trading at a discount relative to germany ’s bunds . third , financial-market players , and , increasingly , real firms are on the verge of a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end in itself . but now , even the mighty bund have started to suffer from heightened market anxieties . whereas they needed a price risk more precisely , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with a debt-to-gdp ratio of almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be weighed down by a larger implicit risk . it remains hard to think of the unthinkable , let alone to work out the specifics , but any rational player must now reckon with the possibility .
indeed , by coincidence that on sunday a young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , a first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration meeting with michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for an elections , deploys your brains , and muscles . ” you can always count on us support , but above all , that can be based on us . those arabs were put together outside the kremlin walls that very day . that meeting played out as part of a gathering , led by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists .
hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit fowl once lamented that “ it ’s not an easy bein ’ green . ” last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if a world sticks with “ business as usual , ” global temperatures could rise above 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c rise deemed a “ safe ” . today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy , merely turning greece into a green one . this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge the political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to achieve a successor global agreement on climate change by 2015 . but , just as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by significant investments in areas like smart grids , energy and renewables .
the quest for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how unjust today ’s international institutions are today . formed in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect the realities that had long stopped . much of the so-called third world was either recently independent or remained colonies ; all was very poor . after wwii and japan was the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , with china engulfed in a full-scale civil war that would rally mao ’s communists to power . the organization and allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global balance that disappeared long ago .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made last-minute appeals to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the movement of people within the uk . merkel refused , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony now is that merkel is confronting the same anti-migrant backlash that cameron did in 2016 . but when the eu ’s immigration level exceeds a country ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb new entrants into the labor force , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short term . in fact , immigration tends to be good for an economy over the long term , especially if the ratio of pensioners to workers rises .
the odious debt idea has been revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael skremer and in a 2010 paper by the center for global development ( cgd ) , which suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of its odious obligations . the panel would take the form of the declaration that states ’ debts , issued by a particular government , would be perceived as odious . such a declaration reduces the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments relinquish their forebears ’ debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce their debts ) . in effect , this is precisely what the trump administration has just been doing . the cd ’s message suggests that the regime should be perceived as odious if it abuses human rights , uses military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or mismanages public finance .
that cleared the path for bhutto , who remained prime minister until his resignation in 1996 , this time with her own pakistan people ’s party ( anpp ) . sharif , in 1997 , was reemerging once again . he resigned under popular pressure in 2008 , with new elections brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who assassinated earlier december , to the presidency . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari did not transferring the executive ’s authority to his prime minister ; instead , he expected the two prime ministers who had served under him to follow his orders . but his confrontation with the army intensified over the years , resulting in yet another military coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf .
in egypt , for example , annual fertility rates have declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman in the past 15 years . over the same period , tunisia ’s rate of population growth has fallen by more than 50 % , to european levels slightly more than two children per woman , while per capita income has grown at an impressive 3 % annual rate . rich countries ’ shift from subsistence economies to sustained gdp growth and prosperity has been conditioned on a profound demographic shift – occurring in western europe ’s 19 th place in western europe and throughout the 20 th century in east asia – in which fertility rates have fallen dramatically . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp birth declines in poor countries , which now show solid signs of economic progress . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income has grown at an annual rate of 2.6 % .
it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defensive systems . it has constructed and launched its first aircraft carrier , and has plans to launch even more . in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now meeting with the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries , too , are on a similar path militarily . though china still has much catching up to that , its overall defense spending is already second only to america ’s .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous level of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable because no other external force for order is available . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that the end of enforced stability in the old middle east will not spawn the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already suggest as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain as well . the resulting power vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or other religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . one of the region ’s rare positive traits is that no global power ambition currently plays out there .
in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in the an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption objectives that demand 10 % growth under china ’s previous model . this implies that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorbing objectives – from employment to urbanization and poverty reduction – with much slower gdp growth than it did in the past . after all , why be it that services are so important to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional pattern of growth . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more employment per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction .
the united kingdom now seems certain to hold by june 2016 , a referendum on remaining in the eu , and a far-left party – determined , like greece , to escape the rigors of its economic reform – might actually win spain ’s general election next autumn . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece is leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk is abandoning the eu ) , and a spanish electoral outcome that is reminiscent of greece ’s . indeed , all eu member states ’ euroskeptic and nationalist forces would strive , with increasing success , to turn their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the central issue in domestic political discourse and electoral campaigns . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining a part of the eu , with spain rallying behind the status quo or a clearer vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . should such a perfect storm occur , the eu would undoubtedly face much doubt , for other member countries contemplating or launch planning their own post-eu futures .
the world ’s leading economies are entering a severe recession . and yet at this gathering storm , one genuine accomplishment has been difficult to find . for the world ’s poorest countries , aid is at stagnant , despite years of promised increases . climate-change negotiations are proceeding around in circles , too . rising oil prices are at historic highs , but there are signs that oil prices are at historic highs .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur an economic revival . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism set a new tone for politics , with its frustration and insecurity on the future overshadowing hope . in a few short years , the package of pro-market and economic opening seemed out of step with the rest of the world . frustration even afflicts the region ’s paragon of outward-looking politics , chile .
that drive toward an alofin , esat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-your-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is inevitable : americans were squeezed full of hope that more consumption would make them happier and instead left their pile of debt crops . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america ” but that in america now , it comes the morning after . little wonder , then , that a sort of survivalist has become an updated version of the religious , communal chic of the 1960 ’s . americans lost the faith in those who , in boom times , purred , “ trust us . ” they were asked to admire the top of the income pyramid , merely to discover that they were looking at the us pyramid .
chinese leaders ’ stated desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a position that has a strong enough time to get their way , without firing a shot . this shrewdness not only keeps its opponents off balance ; it also undercuts the relevance of america ’s security assurances to its allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . to be sure , china has been careful to avoid any dramatic action that could become a casus belli , by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multi-domain , then pursuing each element separately in such an extent as enabling different pieces to fall into place with minimal resistance . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china is again playing the burden of starting a war on its adversary , as it attempts to lay the foundation – a brick by the hegemonic middle kingdom .
these cities are learning from one another , building on the good ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . if successful , all of them will be willing to join the club , all will be willing and able to join the club . fundamentally , this is the correct approach to managing systemic risk and changing the intricate , interconnected systems , and to manage the common resource successfully – though it has so far dent the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . in the decades ahead , we may be seeing a global system of interconnected , sustainable cities that is emerging . los angeles took a decade to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , moved quickly when they saw the rewards .
new york – some years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with president xi jinping in beijing an excellent people ’s hall . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be a tranquility , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not fear the “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” so named for the greek historian who has chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens has made war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put that crudely : is it that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded by china ’s conventional culture ? to put this crudely : does it really matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s conventional culture ? clearly , we need to look ahead , and not back , they say . things are at last moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please , do anything that may upset that hopeful movement .
london – what will the just-released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? all of them are the cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have struggled to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind the front . and they are all the cases where that effort did not work . a worldwide uproar triggered by the panama papers , carried out 11.5 million files , evidently by distributing computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest law firm , panama , mossack fonseca , is likely to continue for some time . files ’ release revealed the extremes and sometimes expensive , lengths that individuals go to conceal their assets and avoid taxing .
some will say that the fateful error was to permit greece to adopt the euro . its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were agitating for pushing wages up to the european level , despite lagging productivity . the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but each will be problems for another day . that the country has been ill-prepared to have been made explicit . but that answer is all too straightforward , given that such traces of dysfunction are not confined to greece .
that policy was destined to manufacture the financial crisis because it was obliged to exit governments and levered assets and bigger debts . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeated nowadays . depressions , recessions , contractions – calling them whatever one will come into existence because the private-sector spends less than it did in the past . prime minister david cameron and chancellor george osborne resent the eurozone crisis ; in reality , their own level of economic illiteracy is to blame . despite austerity , the uk ’s forecast for this year ’s structural deficit has plunged from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an additional £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts each year .
paris – last month , the concentration of co2 in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend – which fits the worst-case scenario set out by the un intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) – persists , carbon-dioxide concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century – with devastating consequences . even in the ipcc ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , predicting global averages from 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations is expected to trigger worst-case outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including losses of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing such risk-taking and insecurity on future generations , global carbon emissions , which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually , must be halved by 2050 .
the european commission has just submitted a proposal to reform the commonwealth fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . the americas have turned a corner on rebuilding their fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . indeed , good science is the cornerstone of both policies . because fish and other ocean wildlife do n’t remain within national boundaries , international cooperation remains vital to the world ’s oceans ’ long-term health and to the sustainability of fisheries and fisheries jobs . but just enough is not enough to get our respective homes under order .
the technologies that engage patients in their own health care and allow for more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to upgrade the management of disease , reduce hospitalization , and at a lower cost . today , transformational advances in health care owe much to the new information on genomics , access to big data to influence decision-making in real time , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , more connected delivery systems . indeed , today , transformational advances in health care owe much to the new information on genomics , the accessibility of large data to influence decision-making in real time , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , more connected delivery systems . but they are just the beginning . further breakthroughs made possible by science and technology convergence can be expected , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector .
even in a tightly controlled economy like china , massive capital inflows have paved the way for the past decade to find their way around controls . capital controls have a real cost , albeit if they fail to stanch inflows . they create an array of regulatory protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to get around the constraints . when the incentives for money flow across borders are strong , it finds a way , abetted by the proliferation of firms with multi-country operations and an expansion in international commerce – serving as an instrument of masking capital flows and evading controls . moreover , the establishment of controls on a single type of dosage simply leads to its being disguised in other forms .
such shifts can emerge merely slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the calculus of risk-managing pricing and potential returns . indeed , today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s market is easy to account for fundamental drivers : earnings are increasing ; inflation has remained at bay ; and the global economy appears to experience a broad , synchronized expansion . in october , the international monetary fund up-to-date its world outlook to forecast that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . and , while the major central banks are planning or have already started to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now . political crises , however sensational that they may be , are unlikely to change investors ’ economic calculus .
skidelsky approvingly described krugman ’s argument that britain was “ doing worse ” this time than it did during the great depression . more than once , he echoed krugman ’s statement that osborne was motivated by the erroneous belief that if he did not slaced the deficit , he could forfeit investor confidence ( the “ “ confidence fairy ” ) . instead , the tories won a outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians . what might well have gone wrong , or , rather , might have gone wrong ? just one week before the uk voted the uk back earlier this month , in an interview that german voters , “ always wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” may “ decide they ought to stay in bed . ”
to my right sat dagan , who just ended eight years as chief of mossad ; to my left sat dore gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views as the best way to guarantee israel ’s security , worth recapitulating their respective arguments . dagan argued that going back to the pre-1967 croatia lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ” he insisted that israel can guard against threat from the east only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that going back to the pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ”
rather , global interest rates scraping the floor , as gdp growth outside the u.s. is so sluggish . the idea that america is winning in a global slump might sound like that of sardonic man some unreformed marxist corner in a dingy corner of our faculty parlance . if a rip van winkle economist was intended to awaken today after a decades-long boots and see one of those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and approaching lines outside kitchens . but such a view is less ideological . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his celebrated first step on the moon ’s surface 50 years ago .
but growing forests also lowered new zealand ’s emissions by 1990 . new zealand has successfully negotiated to include that particular emission offset in its overall figures , neatly offsetting the actual rise . from 1990-2002 to 2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million acres every year . for safety matters , the country has also purchased huge lots of foreign offsets , including highly thatcherism from russia and ukraine . but growing forests have also curbed new zealand ’s emissions by 1990 .
berlin – europe finally seems to have moved past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . every reason for optimism has always appeared as a new cause for concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever pledge the twenty-first century might hold . accordingly , they decided to jump off a cliff in the name of continued sovereignty . there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing will await the united kingdom .
new york – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s approach to foreign policy became clear in 2009 . he prefers acting with other countries to go it alone . and he has shifted the focus of american foreign policy away from what countries do within their own borders toward how they operate beyond them . his administration believes that the united states should talk to other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its own character . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration had branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often it rejected cooperation with other governments lest the american people find itself unconstrained ; and it sought to convert other countries rather than to affect their actions .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far removed and efficient ; a major improvement would include the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise shifting emissions credits . such a bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not keep running to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example through the full sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the treaty period . for the moment , all of this remains quite utopian . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from adequate and efficient ; major improvements would include the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise shifting emissions credits . at the same time , such a bank would ensure that emissions trading did not keep running to the goal of remaining within the whole global budget , for example through the full sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the treaty period .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election ; and the brexit vote that preceded it has triggered a popular backlash against immigration , and has recently suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . in many countries , policymakers and much of the media have been portraying refugees as a threat to security , cultural cohesion , and public resources . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blames her for donald trump ’s losses in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , for a popular backlash against immigration , and has recently suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not end the crisis . humanitarian support on their own will not work , either , except as a stopgap measure .
a charitable association of patient arranges the transaction , for a specified price , and no one except the seller profits from it . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country without incurring any ethical problems . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , this scheme eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country without incurring its ethical problems . a more systemic study of the iranian system has yet to take effect . a bbc tv program in 2006 showed many potential donors to change because of their failure to meet the rigid age criteria and to further others obliged to visit the psychologist .
with the advent of the cold war , us president harry s. nixon ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of europe ’s reconstruction . to that end , they authorized the epu applying for $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds . ironically , it was a form of discrimination : european countries , fearful of being able to find it easier to import from one another but with no dollar , would still refuse to import from america . moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . at this point , however , both narratives diverged .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and a presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , public mistrust of global integration is on the rise . as a former costa rica trade minister , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver the benefits of everyone . the danger that this scenario poses should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism – if taken too far – would break the trade-based economic engine that provided peace and prosperity to the world for decades to come . that mistrust could derail new trade deals currently in the workplace and impede the future .
that backing appeared as part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hopes of building a regional anti-americanism alliance . the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears to have kept it there . there have been severe grounds over the past three years to believe that latin america is going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent surge in global commodity prices has meant that chile ’s traditionally regional powerhouses , brazil and mexico , have experienced economic booms of their own . chávez is the loser not only because he has given the farc the moral backing it had ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and made publicly call the american stooge ) , but also because he is believed to provide the farc with covert military support .
the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thus bypassing the economy ’s troubles on its way to the next president , just as it is doing with an iraqi-iranian quagmire in iraq . for america today , the real question is whether some kind of short , sharp downturn will occur along the path of a brief , sharp downturn or a more protracted one , shallower , deceleration . with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to follow through on their profligacy . even if america ’s federal reserve keeps lowering interest rates further , its lenders will not rush to make ever-higher bad mortgages . its chances of a succeeding outcome are slim .
but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , either . given the risks intrinsic to betting policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly rewarding human capital , especially well-educated young people – to leave lagging regions for those offering yet more and better-employment opportunities – might prove a critical tool for adjustment . but , in fact , centralization carries its own costs , too . as it stands , labor mobility in the eu is imperfect . but , with language also implementing something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aims to create an innovative “ “ learning economy , ” an economy that underpins inclusive social and environmental policies ) , upward mobility could intensify .
fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or irkutk , rather than paris or budapest . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and inherited much of it from asia : young citizens , amulings , cultural traits , and a shared history . a number of new russians , working just 16 hours per day , live seven days per week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia ’s tiger economies . “ it ’s not america , you must work here ” -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- is a popular josep . nowadays , most russian elites sense themselves not only europeans but , ultimately , i believe , too europeans .
the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unfpa ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to suspend work in the affected areas . while suu kyi does not control the military , which runs the killing crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency aid . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , there are also feelings of the impact of the rohingya ’s plight . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who has previously won an international civil service , as well as the nobel peace prize , for her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government exacerbated it .
in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering the formal process of withdrawal from the eu . this will be no easy feat , and eu negotiators have already set the timeline for just 18 months . achieving an agreement that guarantees the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship will be a top challenge . though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , the french-speaking dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least owing to their joint interests – rooted not just in economic interdependence , but also in the refugee crisis and a collective fight against terrorism . european politics next year will consume the brexit negotiations .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities deny non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in their practice of their own faiths , a ruling condemned throughout the muslim world for his negative portrayal of islam . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . ” in addition , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that might imply severe constraints on muslims the right to choose how they practice their faith . according to america ’s state department , curbs on religious freedoms have included demolishing hindu temples , an explosion in christian churches , and a ban on the practices of shia islam , to which some 15 % of the world adheres . in addition , international measures of press freedom and corruption expose most persistent deficits as well .
there are n’t many human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted for a decade , hundreds of thousands , or even millennia ahead . the fall-off from nuclear waste is one ; human ’ contribution to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions , from combustion of fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels , is another . moreover , the larger our emissions , the higher the sea level will rise . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report stated , in uncharacteristically strong respects , that sea levels are “ practically certain ” to continue above trend in the coming centuries or millennia . but the recent revelations about antarctica are very different .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies torn , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their habib university in kenya . while those attacks garner the world ’s attention , most people fail to recognize that , in the last five years , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and the groups espousing it are threatening to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territories where extremist groups may germinate .
the massive stimulus of rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , the sustained chinese growth in the face of the global recession . but the cost has been an increasingly serious misallocation of capital , resulting in growing non-performing loans , while the excessive chinese household savings have inflated real-estate bubble . the first problem is china ’s ’s economy , so a dynamic afoot on the surface but so rickety under-neath . the indian analyst chi lo lucidly presents an image of macro success alongside micro ’s failures . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis has shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged demand dysfunction in the advanced countries .
but , in the american view , that is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . on human rights , america argues that there are genuinely fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and their current systems . moreover , the us insists that it does not containing china ( as it did with the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise , it has facilitated america ’s access to american markets , much as it does to global markets through america ’s support of chinese accession to the world trade organization . for these reasons , the bilateral strategic strategic strategic strategic strategic strategic policy is growing . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for “ a new type of great-power relations , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others concluded was the near-inevitability of a prolonged clash between the rising powers ( china ) and the established power ( america ) .
but this is as simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different in terms of competition among market firms . nonpartisan america ’s student-government budget office and the us institute for taxation and economic policy among others have shown clear evidence that far more than 80 % of the impact on corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not on workers . and there is little evidence that the us corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees rather than on capital . still , market liberals might argue that taxation-negative behavior and hamper wealth creation .
at the same time , europe ’s welfare states face a profound dilemma . doctors are not gods , but they increasingly overplay god by refusing to use life-prolonging techniques on patients and families who want them and are even willing to pay for them . admittedly , there is little doubt that holland is spending substantial sums on caring for the old people . in holland , there is no private medicine , either . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave or go to courts .
sadly , it remains far from clear that the china infrastructure-development model can be exported universally . in fact , some of the developing countries in asia are working very differently . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition from men displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , as well as running rampant roughshod over environmental concerns and workforce ’ rights over them . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport in order to curtail the government ’s human-rights abuses on its outskirts .
but congressional republicans may be insisting that it pay for the cuts in personal income tax cuts by restricting the tax cut deductions that individuals now use to lower-their tax bills . that change would raise revenues equivalent to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for the very substantial cuts in each one tax rate . falling in the name of republican tax cuts by paul ryan , the speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating any additional tax plan than it does for charitable campaign contributions and the mortgage rate . and even when revenues are expected to be raised because they could be raised from airports , companies might detract from having to rely on long-standing pricing agreements . falling into thinking about tax cuts is also easy .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . when observers frequently cite the loss of habitat in the face of population growth , land degradation , and rapid industrialization . and then there is the most frequent charges of all : that an increase in poaching is endangering species , like elephants and rhinos . in kenya , for example , an innovative and extensive conservation project is now underway . beginning in aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” ” ” ” ” ” originally conceived to protect highly threatened black rhine from the ravages of poachers , is supported by very people who might resist it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive areas of farming .
the personal-saving rate has stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a peak of 1.5 % year on year in 2005 , but around half the 7.5 % average recorded over the final three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the us debt overhang remains massive . the convoluted floor behind this strategy is a quite disturbing one , including , first and foremost , america ’s , but also the global economy . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely begun for us households . there is nothing cyclical about the lasting aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession , which have now been evident for nearly five years .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recent chaotic de-monetizations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from assured . moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club led to favorable reform in much of the aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries , which later joined the european union . ecb president mario draghi deserves the top marks for rebalancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and for the mediterranean needs some accommodations . a second earlier success has been that , by virtually all measures on some international use , the euro instantly became the world ’s second global reserve currency . more recent retries on the “ ledger ” side include the progress of some periphery countries , particularly spain , lowering their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
madrid – if she is unlucky , a crisis will come to a head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and all earlier calculations might sound moot , because , despite germans ’ frustrations with europe , voters will punish severely those who enabled europe to fail . it is only a matter of time – no longer very much in the end , before economic destabilization generates political instability . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . meanwhile , the european union ’s ( and europe ’s ) economies are slipping into deep and at every turn and protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany still attempts to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu and the eu are facing a genuine threat of deflation , with potentially disastrous consequences .
the ctbt is needed , owing to the role of nuclear testing in developing and upgrading of nuclear weapons . it sets a new standard for nuclear-weapons treaty obligations and verification . such trials are also political symbols that have little place in a world determined to eliminate these antiquated weapons of mass destruction . the treaty is also a fair — it included the same rights and responsibility for all of its parties . even today , through a wide variety of sophisticated means , it can detect very small nuclear tests in its distant locations .
the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes have rested – probably too many on his presidency . we need leaders with sufficient mastery of detail , like china before last premier zhu rongji , who not only can tell us about how they will obtain us from a front for z , but can actually lead us from a point of view to b. after all , dysfunctional political systems do . looking around , leaders like putin appear to be on the losing side of the extinct species . or , when they exist at all , they appear to have been outlawed by dysfunctional political systems . at the same time , their ability to act is constrained by their very political environment .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . the united nations security council resolved in november that year , by means of acquiring territory through war ” , it is all but unacceptable . in reality , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama had called for . today , palestinians are clamoring for statehood on a mere 22 % of territory that was previously part of a compulsory palestine until israel unilaterally became established on areas far greater than it was awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . successive un security council resolutions and their international treaties have upheld this principle .
indeed , some argue that the world ’s inventiveness and internationalism of a networked world of interests and shared causes is likely to be more resilient than one crammed into the artificial – and , increasingly , constraining – box of the nation-state . conversely , the us may find itself in a world whose east is organized into a strong , authoritarian state structure , with the west embracing post-state models of association . yet the question for international governance is how to provide a framework for institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structure . policymakers ’ answers are depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon the us ’s own states and diplomacy to their destiny . in that sense , the economic success of either china or india may be those states ’ refusal since middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional .
at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp has announced 60 goals for economic and corporate-governance reforms . many hope that such changes will help the ccp become more efficient , enhance the market ’s role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has the ensnared many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , party rhetoric reveals little about the way those goals will accomplish them . indeed , there are worrying signs that the emerging architect of the reform agenda , the widely respected german chancellor li keqiang , is already sidelined . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to wean itself off from vested interests .
slowing the flow of recruits is even more vital . countries can do more to force individuals to leave for isis or syria ; an europe-wide watch list , for example , would help . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey ’s determined that it will no longer allow itself to become a conduit to itself , as well as to enforce the united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must be to counter is the appeal of both 's appeal and its propaganda . slowing the flow of recruits is even more vital .
medvedev himself may find some or all of this distasteful , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is unlikely to vanish overnight . it is now the us that is the supposedly hostile west and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians such as bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to forestall a russia version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a cautiously scripted “ enemy . ” in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs ” . we also need to understand the mechanics of the politics of russia .
the visegrád group , cefta , central europe ’s initiative produced a thriving free trade system and an increased flow of investment between the country ’s countries in the region . in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily , if not at the market ’s desired pace . through learning each other ’s languages , through cooperation on the basis of shared values , common interests , as well as historic bonds , central europeans showed what a spectacular outcome can be achieved . so our challenge was not simply to re-establish the state ; rather , society too -- its family values , its national tradition , and its cultural heritage . our newly-freed societies now must learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned some new economic and political language .
in 1988 , conservationists decided to fund themselves and build an electrified fence to protect an area of aberdare national park bordering the smallholder farms . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forests and vital watercatchment zones , as well as a polio-free national park , are vitally important for kenya . local farmers welcomed an initiative that influenced the decision to expand the fence to surround a farter of aberdare range . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion into human population and park degradation . but it also protected the farmers , whose crops were regularly destroyed by marauding elephant and another wildlife .
these protests have two major causes , first and foremost . first , social inequality has risen unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and , indeed , to the threat of expansionist communism . the specter of a revolution has pushed western elites to use power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . yet , with communism collapsing in its eurasian heartland , the western ’s rich , believing it had nothing more to worry about , pressed to roll back the welfare state , thereby causing inequality to rise fast . this was tolerable as long as the global pie expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of the illicit drug trade of $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . colombia today is far worse than the chicago under al capone . the critics have said that figure is only half-that – still a striking sum . drug prohibition effectively imposes a global commerce tax in illicit drugs enforced by governments , and collected by those willing to violate laws .
tatiana insisted that bam construction began in 1974 , a politically correct date , after which “ clean labor ” was used . but the railway ’s first section , initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that ran further away from the chinese borderlands , had been built by force of labor , including the russian male inmates and japanese inmates of the war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were being used , they were hardly nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claimed . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few re-enlisted , and many deserted before the completion of their term . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era building showed what that dying the soviet system was still competent to achieve .
indeed , the party grouping , which benefits the most from the current electoral system , will be the one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . the problem for m5s is that , thanks largely to its new electoral legislation , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote , in order to secure italy ’s own parliamentary majority . whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the lower house ’s seats , one-third will be decided by the first-past-the-post voter turnout in single-member constituencies where m5s will most likely lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . and , with eu support at around 26-29 % , italy remains popular despite its pathetic performance running the city council of rome . as showed with its election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been building coalitions .
bea ’s ’s critics have long argued that unperishable , state-dictated passenger fares and freight charges for rail services , which could not cover the costs of maintaining trains ’ safety and tracks , much less enable expansion and service improvements , reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . it is truth to show that broad coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railroad minister summarily dismissed by his own party leader , whom the upa was politically unable to confront – after trying to raise fares there . but , in the run-up to the rama interim budget , upa ’s government finally bit the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % rate hike on freight rates . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement rate hikes , even though officials made sure to emphasize that they had simply been following through on an existing mandate . per india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s code of political conduct state has been deferred until after the elections .
that marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural pluralism . together with the government agency ’s plan to produce an even more problematic national register for citizens , the authorities are ruling out disenfranchisement any indian muslims who is unable to prove their or her provenance in india . while the non-muslims would , thanks to the approved bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of demonstrated on them that they are indian . many indians , especially the poor , lack a documentary demonstrated when , and where it was born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . under the approved bill , muslim immigrants may be said to be illegal .
is europe today poised to come to terms with the similar failures of an important financial institution ? the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was totally unforeseen . compounding the problem , nobody really understands the precise connections among russian and european institutions and markets . having just emerged from the deep recession , financial disruptions could well cause europe to bounce back into recession , especially given europe 's near links to russia through its trade and energy sector . the financial sanctions imposed in response to russia are not focused , either temporary , or fully credible .
gdp has nearly tripled during the last 20 years , yet , with real wages having risen at less than half that pace , growth has become decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ livelihoods . indeed , the signs of social distress are proliferating . more than half of middle-income households spend more every month than they earn . south korea ’s gdp divorce rate has more than doubled , fertility rates have dropped to the fourth-lowest level among advanced economies , and rates of suicide are highest in the oecd . south korea has experienced hardship for two key reasons .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of its conventional weapons , its counter-terrorist capabilities are probably higher . while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of its conventional weapons , its combat capabilities are probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview that merely reinforced , rather than undermined , the enemy of ’s fanaticism . it is precisely to impede the development of the collective security fear that we need to alter the equilibrium between safety and freedom . that may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” ” ” ” ” ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
ross should read mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the world ’s banks , and reflect on the large cost of their bad loans to low-income families . or he could just ask mick mulvaney , the acting white house chieftains of staff . likewise , mulvaney has devoted substantial time over the last two years to weaken us safeguards that the consumer financial-protection bureau earlier this year attempted to introduce in order to prevent some of the industry ’s worst abuses . while in the house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from a payday loan industry , making most of its gains from borrowing at very high interest rates to people with no alternative when they desperately need the cash . as the government ’s shutdown unfolded , the stock price of payday lenders soared .
seoul – the grand revolution in military matters is taking place throughout east asia . recent signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xihou caihou , a formerly politburo member and a former vice-chair of the central military commission , on charges of corruption , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country ’s military aid to its allies . despite the rising regional tensions that have inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are by no means fated to lead to direct confrontation . but rolling out new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways if the outcome must be avoided . broadly speaking , there are three paths to forging international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and constructing international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have witnessed over the past two years has had to do with a fundamental source of instability in the us banking system , one that we can and must design beyond existence . in a deep financial crisis , banks discover that a declining market value for many of their assets leaves them short of capital . nor can they raise much more capital during this crisis , so , in trying to rebuild their capital adequacy , stopping short of making new loans and prompting the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , as are its solutions . to do that , we must advance the state-provided state of our financial technology .
but he maintained that islam was an essential part of the chechen tradition , and presented himself as a leader who understood this entirely . yet , enjoying a huge grant from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , providing this with some security . so he encouraged the islamic dress code and built a huge mosque – one of the greatest , if not the greatest , in europe . kadyrov also catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . he rejected wahhabism – the ideological principles of jihadists .
afghanistan poses particularly difficulties in reconstruction because it is not a society with a powerful political center . roads , airports , and communication systems must also be revitalized if trade is to resume . roads , airports , and communication systems must also be revitalized if trade is to resume . village housing needs to be provided at massive levels -- that is , it must be provided on a massive scale . the education system needs to be rebuilt almost from scratch , and with enough women anxious to return to education , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan 's liberal democratic politicians win the workers ' powerful lobby .
indeed , it comes as a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , with the fed standing idly by as the us economy crumbled , is the molding event stalking the consciousness of every american central banker . italy ’s institutional personalities reflect the role played by collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that they calculate their societies ’ respective historical experiences .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” sanctions were taking effect , predicting a major decline in the unemployment rate , or that the pace of economic growth would recover to brisk rates . on the contrary , “ a catastrophic turn toward austerity ” has wiped out millions of jobs and destroyed many lives , ” he argued , with america ’s congress exposing the americans to bush ’s imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . as a result , “ full recovery still looks very long , ” he warned . i raise all of this , because krugman had taken the victory lap in his seminal of-2014 column on “ obama ’s revival . ” “ and i ’m turning to worry that it may never have happened . ”
while many are in trouble , that ’s probably not the best time for launching a new car company , either . the group ’s initiative , led by räsänen , is being hailed as ecars – now ! – that is what will happen ? borrowing from the open-software movement , räsänen and his colleagues wants the idea and core designs free , encouraging many companies all over the world to implement it locally . a small-scale operation in finland is , after all , less a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring globally . yet , while it has been in trouble , the market for new automobiles has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to start a business replacing low-cost gasoline engines .
the united states , with its government barely to describe itself as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . in contrast to these failures , vladimir putin ’s ’s ’s achievements in chechnya look like the magnitude of his success . but i do think that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded rationale among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way of measuring whether and to what extent a government is efficient . if an effective criterion for effectiveness is its capacity to achieve all society ’s goals , we will most likely never find such a thing .
these and other funding streams helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunity for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the tools to fund programs that could build on these gains . africa ’s leaders simply have a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . in 2003 , the african union and a new partnership for africa ’s development began implementing a continent-wide strategy to develop and use science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and its integration into the global economy . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed .
london – five years after the collapse of the american investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the fundamental causes of the subsequent financial crisis , excess of debt . official forecast in the spring of 2009 foresaw neither a sluggish recovery , nor that the earlier crisis , which was essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would have fueled a knock-on crisis in the eurozone . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and sustainable . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , the us failed to foresee how painful its consequences would be . and that is why the economic recovery has proceeded far more slowly than anyone expected ( it has come at any time in some countries ) .
for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition would enable the uk to remain in the eu in all but name . the big difference now is that the uk will be losing its votes on the table . a third deal in phase two will center around the roadmap for the uk-eu relations after 2021 . this will not amount to a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration about where both sides hope to quit . and , for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way of going back without falling off the cliff edge .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia groups , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . muslims find it hard to fathom how we might believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkenness are openly hinted . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about creating a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west . to the very extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as an individual ’s relations with his or god ’s ; muslims see it as their organizing social principle .
yanukovych has always been the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which defeated his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine within the russian camp . with russia ’s collapse not only losing its status as a world power ; in europe , it was forced to withdraw toward the frontier that it had extended to the west since peter the great , ultimately to the elbe and thuringia . so why has the eu press for an association agreement without being able to offer ukraine anything resembling what russia had offered ? the answer can be found in europe ’s relations with russia .
in essence , this is a productive change that i call the economic dynamism of today . the late 1990 ’s provided hard evidence that low dynamism correlates with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . what , then , is the need for high performance ? less obviously , a country does not want a misguided or nonsensical change ; it wants an investment that appears to have been made as productive as the financial sector . for employees to develop , they need to be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new difficulties for fixing , tougher tasks that must be mastered , added capabilities that will strive for .
first , because much of the technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulate it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , standard views of business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to that firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , the laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated in order to ensure that it companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulate it . above all , the public will have to develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , particularly how technologies that have improved the lives of so few are enriching the lives of so few . new concepts of the public interest are also needed to regulate new channels of public information , such as social networks .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years , this time in the central african republic , the interventionism that it seemed discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq , appears to have returned as the accepted norm in international affairs . a military operation might well be referred to by the un security council as well , but only after the reality that the council ’s decision-making can no longer make any significant impact on events on the ground . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have moved the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their achievability rather than merit . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays entails no more than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection with ongoing united nations deliberations . to understand how that shift has occurred is to see why , more often than not , such interference has failed to attain its goals .
both coase and krugman bemoan the dereliction of their occupation ’s patrimony – a tradition dating back to adam smith – that prized grand , unifying theories of political economics and moral philosophy . the simplicity and elegance of both micro - and macro models makes them useful in explaining both the fiscal mechanism and the balance or the imbalance of key aggregate economic variables . he argues that when economists have become blind to this catastrophic macro failure , because it mistook the beauty or elegance of a theoretical model for truth . but there are lessons to be gained from describing or analyzing the actual behavior of crucial market participants . the contemporary obsession of reductionist and mechanical models seems to have driven the occupation from theory toward ideology , enlisting it with the real economy .
the question of how to regulate access to genetic sequence data is now cropping up in international debates , including at the world health organization and the united nations food and agriculture organization . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the parties ’ conference for biological diversity , a major treaty that regulates access to biological diversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , in early december . participants on the cop 13 have to focus their attention on the need to protect the rights of resource providers . after all , such no-strings-attached databases are not simply facilitating sharing ; they allow stealing .
if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , badly developed economies , mainly because one powerful effect of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications , is to make it much easier to participate in the worldwide labor division now centered on the us . demand growth at a pace that in any of the last decade would be perceived as eminently satisfactory is suddenly absent , and bush is blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack in the labor market that resulted . as the world ’s more deeply advanced economies , america faces the hardest work in securing growth ; for it must generate – not just copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . but , for all of bush – and those left behind by the demand lag behind – this represents an exceptional opportunity . a remarkable boosts to productivity that was within america ’s grasp will ultimately result in accelerating growth of real earnings and real wages as long as us policymakers resist the temptation to follow through politically expedient but economically damaging , measures to “ protect ” us output and employment .
to avoid another public backlash , they need to compel such platforms to serve the us not just as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens . this is propelling the latest shift in the corporate stakeholdership has focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale . earlier this year , the artificial-ficial-ficial-meat manufacturer ( pdership ) beyond meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as corporations have done earlier this , the company – and the like , such as impossible foods – is working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and a high level of inequality – this must include the unprecedented platform leadership ’s power to catalyze global-scale solutions .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s biennial ministerial conference . the wto ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy . with the united states having historically led the world toward trade liberalization , now are actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to contradict any other one . some sort of agreement is typically delivered , but at the last moment , and its language is often vague . this time , however , the outcome could prove even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a token agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia and lithuania . similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations have played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance the nationalist narratives that can demonize very handy for politicians to win popular support . for one , pis has accrued substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . in fact , there are more extreme cases than poland .
instead , the reform proposals have chosen a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks and pre-funding of deposit insurance through a particular bond levy on banks . this would enable capital-buffers to be developed in good years , which could then be pulled down over the bad ones in the bad years . as is frequently pointed out , when banking regulation are identical across frontiers , the scope of “ regulatory arbitrage ” will suffice . admittedly , there are difficulties for any proposals to limit the scale of “ riskiest ” banking , especially the very existence of the global economy with free capital mobility . there seem to be little appetite for proposals to vary capital-account requirements counter-cyclically-minded .
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act ( aca ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in extending insurance coverage to the very millions of americans who would n’t otherwise have it . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby . and , contrary to his critics ’ warning , he has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending to a downward trend . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assuring . that will depend on the obama administration ’s further policies , especially in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over its intellectual property .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up the fiscal capacity and allow resources to reconfigure to new sectors that make it easier for services and urban employment ; but this , at least , is making matters worse – at least at first blush , the demand shortfall today . robust levels of aggregate demand are always key to a successful transformation . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown persuasively that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull its resources into new industries . slashing the size of the us state sector abruptly , and expecting to achieve transformation through austerity is not the way forward . if the us economy ’s old and new sectors are in a deflationary tailspin , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading its human capital stock will decline , and structural adjustment will stall .
london – how radically will digital currencies reshape our exchange methods and the way we think about money ? the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not interest in war . with innovations in digital payment barreling ahead , such questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . and that shift would come at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , iran could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to save the israeli-palestinian peace process appears to be about to end in its failure . if anything , israel has been accelerating settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while worsening its demands , particularly concerning the stationing of israeli forces in the jordan valley . though achieving a substantive settlement was always a pipe dream , this latest disappointing will enable the united states to preserve even the façade of a us-led “ peace process ” in afghanistan , which has been all of the process , with no peace at all . and that may not turn out to be such a bad thing as well . the negotiations are failing for several reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of land occupied in 1967 , notwithstanding opposition from the international community , including america .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos pricing , and , as an attorney general , he defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrests in 2003 . he was subsequently defbarred and was himself arrested in april 2006 . by that point , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for whom treatment was withheld . moreover , in december 2008 , a moscow city court passed its release to bail out an additional 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at that time ) . her request was rejected , because , from 2006 to suspend her own sentence , until her two tiny sons had peaked at age 14 , a request that she was authorized under russian rule .
that timeline requires the two sides to start adopting symbolic and substantive steps immediately . as an initial step , china should propose agreement using the same text as the earlier 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove american non-tariff provisions after the treaty are signed , and unilaterally re-impose tariffs if the american concludes that china is not honored the treaty . and it should add the commitment that china will undertake to enact the agreement in a manner that is “ in line with its own constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ” moreover , they need it to happen by the end of the year , to prevent further damage from major us tariff hikes now scheduled to take effect on december 15 .
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by following the well-worn path of industrialization . over time , manufacturing has ceded its place to services . the progression of manufactures – in textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged out of the ashes of italy ’s traditional craft and guilds , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . peasants became factory workers , an exercise that underscored not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in the social and political organization . in the process , labor movements have guided mass politics and , ultimately , political democracy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
another nuclear-power accident index – that one including costs far beyond death and property destruction , such as hurt or irradiated personnel and malfunctions that failed to stem shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 . some fatalities have occurred since the chernobyl disaster ’s 1986 disaster . and , of course , that average is not include the fukushima catastrophe . indeed , when compared to another power resource , nuclear power ranks higher than the rate of oil , coal , and natural-gas systems in terms of fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . while only a handful of involved fatalities , those that collectively kill more people than have died in commercial america ’s airline accidents since 1982 .
russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than washington or new york . there can be little doubt that the benefits of russia and china , at least in the short run , will ultimately benefit america ’s abdication of leadership . at the same time , some people are not very concerned about this , either . contrary to some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , remains wary of russia ’s strategic designs . this may no longer be as easy as soon as she is no longer viewed as a reliable protector and a fear that china could turn into a panic .
but , when an agreement is negotiated well , the end result brings about far more benefits than the costs . and this would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , levels of gender equality , gay rights , and the millions of internally displaced people of more than a half-century of fighting . the deal has also included a historic land-reform program . negotiators have decided that an unconditional application of justice would not be feasible . for uribe and his opposition allies , the primary objection to the agreement concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice .
it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because forces opposed assad lacked the popular support needed , and the american people have not been prepared to help them win that support . the american people , for example , were wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , only to join the fight against isis and to save the yazidis from their own massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it erred wrong to make it their way to free the city to dust . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen south korean and jordanian defenses , but obviously wrong to make the threat to a nuclear war . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own population ; and probably wo n’t survive under the isis caliphate .
trouble began on the cold war ’s end , when the collapse of the bankrupt communist ideology complacently interpreted as the triumph of the market . the individual became the ultimate agent of change , an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ models . as communism was discarded , so was the notion of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions can be organized . such an individual ’s identity derives not from class interests or other sociological attributes , but from the logic of the market that dictates maximization of self-interest , be it whether as producer , consumer , or voter turnout . indeed , economics rested on the pedestal and enumerated in institutions like the central bank and the competition authorities , unintentionally separated and wrought independent politics .
madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s lebanese democracy remains intact . indeed , while there have been some grievances regarding transparency during the campaign process , it has prevailed , with an astounding 86 % of eligible voters turned out – a rate rarely seen elsewhere in europe . with their vote , turkey ’s citizens have denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority it needs to amend the constitution . moreover , by handing the peoples of the democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote , it has enabled the party to enter parliament for the first time since , with representation throughout the country , not only in a kurd-majority area . the rest of the world – and europe ’s in particular – should take note .
frequently , arab families are sending their minors to germany , in the not-unfounded hope of obtaining other family members ’ right to follow suit later in life . germany will have to cope with the consequences of this refugee surge for years to come . in order to distribute the burdens more equitably , germany has tried to have a european quota system , instituted by distributing applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ a morass of moral imperialism . ” if an app succeeds , a refugee has the right to make her or her family meet as well as her members .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race need to understand that domestic opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how the election might turn out . because of america ’s electoral college , it is not who wins the majority of the popular vote nationwide that matters , but rather who wins where states are . every state is awarded a certain number of votes in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . in almost every state , a candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote receives 100 % of its electoral college . the candidate crossing the 56,000 electoral college wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the us federal reserve will start exiting its zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed monetary-policy volatility in emerging-market economies , bond yields , and stock markets . indeed , rising us interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely surge in the value of the us dollar could cause fears , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . for the past couple of years , all have borrowed trillions of dollars , they are now facing the rise in the true local-currency of such debts , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby driving up their surging debt-service costs further . but , though the fed ’s prospect of raising interest rates is likely to generate significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crisis and distress are more limited . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy came forthcoming , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shockwaves through many emerging countries ’ financial-markets and economies .
faced with american unilateralism , he failed to foster realistic multilateral solutions . indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views , and the universalism of its model – the very charges that have so often been levelled against george w. bush ’s america . indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views , and the universalist in its model – the very charges that have so often been levelled in opposition to george w. bush ’s america . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy clinging to a trade portfolio . chirac unpredictably abandoned his blunders over iraq in his approach to the new european commission .
first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , power , and environmental establishments – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and power generation , among others , relies on uninterrupted supplies . urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable , and sanitation for all . governments should take the lead in ensuring careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . and the expanding global population – set to reach over 9.5 billion by 2050 – will constrain water resources still further .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran has faced similar economic difficulties before – in the 1980 ’s , with oil exports down substantially amid the country ’s ongoing eight-year war with iran , leaving global oil prices extremely low , and handled them relatively well . indeed , four factors made an oil embargo particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting us oil exports is made more painful by world oil prices . ahmadinejad has taken advantage of a massive increase in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its unambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world about its nuclear program unless the political environment changes radically positive as well . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defenses against an existential threat . india and pakistan , in contrast to israel , which stuck committed to its strategy of nuclear opaqueness , both see themselves as nuclear-weapons states and want the world to accept that status moreover ; israel has never tested a nuclear-weapons state ; and it has unabashedly embraced the nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) of guidelines that seek to stem proliferation through its export controls . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities , while the party of the npt , the israelis are bound to say , but also placed israel at a high level on its agenda . across-the-board nuclear equality may ultimately only boost iran ’s nuclear claim .
the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the us dollar ) is that no one can tell us when it does next . but no one knows whether the tokens china ’s baby step is the start of something much bigger , because china ’s authorities hint one day and deny the next . whatever the ultimate economic effects of china may have to admire its first modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire it for its strategic space . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap enormous punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been captured flat-footed . they want to stay put in news coverage , but as long as they push their china-bashing too far and on too fast , protectionists will be seen as discouraging the delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations .
and here , too , obama , especially , will soon grasp that hollande has no intention of bringing about sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will appear as a trustworthy , unsurprising partner . hollande has supported his most supportive of military interventions in libya in march 2011 , and joined with the condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that , in march , should the un security council approve military interventions in syria , france “ might envision ” participating in that effort . hollande is not likely to become less friendly with america than was sarkozy , regarded by many as france ’s most pro-us president .
deflation -- a steady continuous decline in prices -- providing firms and consumers powerful disincentives for cutting expenditures and hoard cash . it reduced the ability of firms and banks to service their debt-service costs , and could trigger a heavy bankruptcies chain that wreck trust in the financial system , providing additional incentives to hoard . such powerful disincentives to hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and fall , and unemployment high and rising , for a much longer time than even a laissez-faire-oriented politician or the economist has ever dared contemplate . but if this is an issue has been solved over fifty years ago , so is trump who is now back ? hence a keynesian solution : using monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and tight fiscal policies ( expanding government expenditures and cutting taxes ) to keep the economy near the precipice , where deflation becomes possible .
and of the more than 50 million children living outside their own countries or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , in the face of new threats to their livelihoods and well-being . the united nations – with support from countries like sweden and through operation via a coordinated humanitarian-response system that covers unicef – is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the sheer and complexity of cascading crises are a testing that the system , as never before , is a system . this is not anti-rhetoric ; there is a reality that it is taking hold . millions of children are undernourished and out-of-school people ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened with exploitation , abuse , and worse .
overcoming the formidable challenge that the climate-change leadership poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s climate summit next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing to putting their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , thereby reaching net-zero emissions by mid-century . to that end , a coalition of african countries – underpinned by the united nations economic commission on africa and a new climate economy – is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support the process . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , thereby putting pressure on others to ramp up their own donations .
widespread fragility in social relations – most importantly , but not only in the us – has slowly become intolerable for an increasing proportion of the population in many advanced countries , and not just in europe . and there can be no stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries , as long as electorates are rejecting the underpinnings of one sort . to be sure , the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters by france was more a rejection of unregulated globalization than was a rejection of europe . but the realignment of the rich , developed countries , around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , that began around the 1970 ’s , has broken down with all that . crony capitalism could be rereformed after world war ii because it buttressed the three indispensable kinds of regulation : social welfare , which served as the principal stabilizer ; at least in the advanced countries ; keynesian resort to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy geared toward stimulating common consumption , without which the sobering genius of capitalism – mass production , does n’t work .
in his influential 1998 book inflationary targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target inflation rate , because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions , ” which would “ “ “ “ “ “ “ communicates ” the central bank ’s intentions , ” beyond reducing uncertainty . the announced rate should be basically positive , they have written , because if officials try to grab it near zero , any mistake could come from the deflation that “ might endanger the financial system and precipitate an economic contraction . ” at the same time , in an age of online scams and fake news , the world today may look a bit unmoored from history . that might generate , in turn , a sense of genuine risk , as well . inflationary targeting has other effects as well , which seem more on central bankers ’ mind .
berkeley – with its ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , the world ’s china task has made clear its goal of ensuring global economic leadership in high-tech industries . this places it , in direct competition with the united states , which is currently leading in these industries , in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over the technologies , with both commercial and military applications . and it has deployed a wide variety of methods – including weak intellectual-property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers , as a precondition for joint ventures with chinese partners , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from america and other trading partners . with its investments in such “ dual-use ” technologies , china is seeking more than confronting competition commercially with the us ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant at the sino-american relationship .
warsaw : the berlin wall fell , bringing germany to join reunification , and yugoslavia disintegrated . soon thereafter , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia , which – along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war would damage all of these economies , too . but the us , which is relatively less reliant on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries – that is , in an contracting global economy . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have held up their own .
the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , as we work greece out of its bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and the return to markets . the treaty would promote stability within the iranian economy and help stabilize the euro , the us currency . most important , the us fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting throughout the eurozone . it would boost confidence in iran and enable the us to increase existing flows of inward foreign direct investment . ratification would also give us guaranteed access to financing from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need this .
after exploring this issue with legislators in a handful of countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many do not have a full grasp of the myriad issues that need to be considered . in the short term , young companies should view their ethics not as a marketing gimmick , but as a central concern . on a public side , laws to protect personal data are not comprehensive ; indeed , much of the rest of the world lacks even a rudimentary safeguards . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or some form of review process involving people who can evaluate every aspect of the consequences of a great-sounding idea . addressing this is a difficult subject , and is why they are hampered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information .
traditional versus modern , urban , versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but it must navigate a tricky path , because the two points of view have significant public support . the young people at shahbag are predominantly urban , well educated , and urban , hifazat derives their support mainly from the rural poor . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to the shahbag protesters than to the hifazat counterdemonstrators . but , all too often , the clichés become established , as they are true .
yet the actual bombshell has been a sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system not , at some point , later , but right now . the cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been widely adopted widely enough to challenge the existing order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly engaged users , facebook could change that . even the current monetary system ’s staunchest defenders will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone . now that the us has thrown down the dot-com gauntlet , governments should use the opportunities to advance a form of a digital currency that serves the public good .
both economic constraints and the chernobyl catastrophe have helped to spur the us into action . why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan failed to elicited a similar response today ? before becoming a soviet leader in 1985 , relationships between the cold war superpowers slammed rock-bottom . reagan and i nonetheless managed to create a reservoir of a constructive spirit through constant outreach and face-to-face interaction . what seems to have lacked today are leaders with boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
august is the traditional month when parliaments recess for the summer . it offers a moment to review why these are enfeebled . across europe , it is not merely british prime minister tony blair , who is charged with “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder is facing the same charges in germany ’s current election campaign . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , actually does not prefer to be labeled as prime minister .
second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments and are readily reversible , the international economy will remain hostage to spectacular booms and bust cycles . indeed , by shifting its attention to internal structural reform in the developing world , the risk now is that the current approach will lead to complacency regarding short-term capital inflows , raising rather than reducing systemic risk further . first , a new set of external disciplines is coming hand-in-hand with a particular , neo-liberal economic-development model that remains untested , and the foreclose the development strategies that work in the past and others that might work in the future . the narrowing of national autonomy in formulating development strategy carries costs to which developing countries are unlikely to receive reasonable rewards .
when all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly in gender that a woman ’s very top management is weakened . for example , cnn has covered up the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones and one that would never be used for male at the very top for whom , arguably , hard work , talents , ambition , and dedication represents more than a “ knack . ” many news stories of female ceos , and of all the high-achieving women , become encoded with a set of reliable clichés : lucked to their new roles ( and therefore do not merit them ) ; inherited them from male relatives , or from spouses ( and therefore do n’t hold the reins of power ) ; or they will not be there for long . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s female reputations ; in the case ceos , they also reduce their value to their companies as well . and all of these clichés were reproduced in the barra ’s appointment at gm .
few observers expected that china would transform abruptly into a full-democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has been disappointing nonetheless . state-owned enterprises ( soes ) are still favored , books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . the dynasty come and go , but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its establishment . how the long this will last is anyone ’s guess .
more recently , elections in europe 's postcommunist countries have brought groups to power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to square hamas with any of these political forces in mind . nevertheless , one must marvel at a victorious movement with a fairly few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not expected to obtain permission to enter the countries in which it was re-elected in order to prevent the new parliament from operating properly . all of this tells us three things about the nature of russia 's democracy . first , elections rarely deal with fundamental problems .
the social consciousness of homo putinicus , meticulously polish television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and outrage at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hated russia can jangle within the land of ordinary russians without slightest dissonance . but only one such “ patriot ” was granted the honors accorded to putin to permit this act . that is why lugovoi is asked for his autograph . of course , this should not be taken to mean by the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s ’s achievement concede the justice of the british accusations . indeed , we are , evidently , confronted with the mystery of a russian thought that has proved so unrealizable for others , so unsound to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
· to remove opportunity barriers , governments must address the root causes of inequality , through identification and elimination of discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantage . moreover , given that inequality largely begins within childhood , governments need to invest far more in high-quality , universal health care and early childhood education . by fostering the creation of early human capital , we can ensure that inequalities within a generation are not passed on to the next . · such investment , in turn , will require additional domestic resources . and , as income inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it generates persistent inequalities .
some , it should be emphasized . spain ’s labor costs , for example , have declined substantially since the crisis began . other reforms , particularly on the political front , will be hotly contested . greece has slashed its spending power by a much larger amount , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions .
gains in inflation-adjusted us personal-consumption expenditure have averaged just 0.8 % for the last five years – the most severe and protracted deceleration in the growth of consumer demand in the post-world war ii era . gains in inflation-adjusted us personal-consumption expenditure have averaged just 0.8 % for the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in the rapid growth of consumer demand in the post-world war ii era . understandably , they are not fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have not heeded the bait to their monetary and fiscal authorities . instead , they have cut back on expenditures . two bubbles – property and credit against which america ’s families have borrowed freely – have long burst . but the aftershocks linger : household-debt burdens have still stood at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % for the final three decades of the twentieth century ) ; and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % , from 1970 to 1999 ) .
though his motivations , at least partly , may have been his yearning for social justice , in effect bribing venues to foster his own rise to power and wealth . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , lowered the national debt ( for a certain time ) , and revived the economy . as good as his word , he came to be on top . with his wonderful and outmoded wife – a “ woman of popular ” – perón was able to persuade voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally transform the country . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even if a move toward autarky undermined growth , causing the country to lose status among the world ’s richest .
in the end , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap will likely become an even more politically controversial one as soon as brazil recovers as it expands . it is not hard to imagine the next administration whenever one emerges – perceiving cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , because the economics case for it is weak when it comes to running into extreme credibility problems . viewed with argentina ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – everything the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future .
part of this can be explained by a misunderstanding of the relationship between the stock market prices and the rate of economic growth . a strange conventional wisdom developed in the 1890s and the 1980s : that strong economic growth and slumped unemployment were bad for share prices . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering the stock market boom . while experts spent the past two years bear this thesis the market has been quietly restored by an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and therefore good for the shareholder-primacy . here is one message from markets worth pondering even to non-investors : political trust may be at a low level in europe ; firms and consumers may be shell-shocked by the last recession and gloomy about their future ; but judging by the market ’s behavior of the years ahead more closely resembles that of a stable and prosperous 1950 ’s and 1960s than by the crisis-ridden decade from 1973 to 1989 .
in 1999 , that task presupposed critical importance , owing to the country ’s opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another device of a can use for influencing public policy . to shape such programs requires : * for sound economic analysis , and the background papers readily accessible for technocrats and others to study ;
the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( the $ 118 billion threshold in all ) to indonesia , korea , and thailand to repay back several foreign lenders that they were seeking to withdraw their funding . the imf predicted that thailand and others might achieve positive growth in 1998 ( 3 % in thailand , for example ) . now , the imf recognizes that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . as a result , its medicine has done very little to rescue the economy . as a result , the currencies have collapsed , and the banking sector has collapsed .
nevertheless , emphasizing obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than trying a distraction ; he also sends the message that a domestic-policy impasse is not his or her fault . so , in the months ahead , expect a high body of foreign-policy news . election-year tactics aside , american voters are quite right . obama has done far better on foreign policy than domestic politics , all the more surprising given the soft hand that one has been dealt with : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as its economic model . the obama administration is aware of the “ iron law of american politics ” – the us economy , stupid ” – as it does anyone else .
but it is just one aspect of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . this is not , needless to say , the fact that europeans crave america ’s rigors as much as the rigors of the less cosseted social conditions , but rather because it ’s the only way that european governments can stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . europeans will also see dismantling their per capita welfare and welfare systems ; a cherished “ european model ” of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits predisposed to the despised and broadly fearful american model . the “ demographic era bomb ” that economic analysts have debated for ten years , or more , has been exploding at this time .
they feel enamored in their conviction that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than a lure of entrepreneurship . the tools of coercion that states dispose of a brief of military intervention are imperfect and to be remotely efficient today requires a level of international solidarity that is generated only under extraordinary circumstances . to be sure , should the rogue state be allowed to get itself out with its provocations ? the trouble is precisely : on most issues , it will . and they will observe with glee on how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of disunity .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . european policymakers obsess over national “ competitiveness , ” ” and seem genuinely to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is being driven by productivity growth , rather than the capacity to capture an increasing share of global markets . that largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . whereas us imports must , of course , be financed by exports , a focus on trade competitiveness draws attention away from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
that would be a momentous shift . china currently controls the entire value chain of the electric cars , including the supply of cobalt , an essential raw material in a battery manufacturing sector . as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery battery cells , the united states has a population of 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” in nevada ) , and europe stands at just 4 % . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production through recycling old electronics , developing new low-cost cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits . and the more crucial battery cells are to the overall value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be .
yet breakthrough tech firms like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-funded education systems . and while there is a growing “ tech ” for the good ” sector in europe , it will succeed only if it supports the up-to-date infrastructure that generally requires public outlays . the governments that make it their central objective of maximizing human well-being have end up not only fostering higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . governments need to reduce the bureaucratic red tape to ensure that entrepreneurs are willing to take on more risk . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – in particular , their fiscal thinking – to put the people first .
it is untenable , for example , in wealthy countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment effectively block agreement to open up new markets for service and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of employment . the initiative will have to come from the top if the case is to progress within each country toward freer markets and more open help for those facing the adjustment . all countries will have to give ; no one country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . pro-trade forces may get their part in the political process as they prepare . in developing countries , pro-trade voices may help to turn the debate into the opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exceptions .
but iranian critics of us intervention seem to believe that it is the middle way forward . inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , and a regional accord with turkey and the gulf states , does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . iran has already countenanced maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a wider policy reconsideration is needed to push back against us-backed unilateralism is a menace , hence the point . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that hyper-overreach could trigger a long list of potentially dangerous implications . indeed , iran ’s prompt support for shia-led iraq has been partly intended to preempt competition from regional adversaries .
that storm alone caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvey . in october 2013 , residents of an odisha state held their attention early to cyclone phailin ’s arrival . in houston , the authorities were ready for harvey partly because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina that devastated new orleans in 2005 . by the time that storm had made landfall , many people had already been evacuated . the impact of the lessons learned in india is all the more striking .
and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ? for catalan separatists , that means they now confront what the spanish political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should not barcelona have the legal right to leave catalonia ? given that the status quo is unstable and impossible for independence , many are convinced that the only solution entails greater fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term .
even that futile scenario might be optimistic , for it assumes that the talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . even that futile scenario might be optimistic , for it assumes that the talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal building of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such actions are not simply unfair ; they are a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who has been tasked with resolving the conflict , and the trump administration ’s ’s ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , appears to have understood this . any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides – the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept .
meanwhile , in doing so , however , china is openly challenged by the very foundations of the liberal order . and they are not ready to risk the foundations of its domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi has christened the “ project of this century ” – is the true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to intensify commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . the remarkable communiqué from world leaders attending the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promoting “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , human rights , gender equality , ” and empowering women .
the question , then , is whether the new leaders , early as next month , succeed in adopting the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . part iii of the eu ’s blocked constitutional treaty is but the compendium of the current eu treaties , which , because such treaties will remain in force regardless of whether they are part of a new document – – may be decoupled from the rest . part ii of the stalled charter , the eu ’s charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful , for as the eu ’s bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without a clearly defined fundamental human right . the best way forward would be to focus on the essentials .
in the long run , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . this is true of european nations . but , for europe , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is needed more today than ever , much stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . as the world changes and opens up across the boundaries of nation and culture that values will dominate in the twenty-first century ? forget , or at least the course of short-term electoral politics .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and america have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . likewise , just a few months ago , two police vice ministers , chief executive director of the transportation sector , and a former director of the national petroleum corporation , were all brought to court on charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss .
a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . it would then contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu into a compromise on the migration issue and climate policy that is pointless otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens would block legislation . the fdp , for its part , would like to be involved in such a government , for precisely that reason . and merkel herself would be trying to avoid becoming dependent on the minority coalition with the fdp .
china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of that in the united states . though beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , there remains much poverty . one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists that went overseas last year were using their loan cards to buy some $ 1 billion worth of goods they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of these european and american branded goods are indeed manufactured in china ) . chinese corporations ’ high levels of indebtedness could fuel financial instability , even though several officials stressed that they were not worried . it is revealing that to achieve the five-year plan ’s target of eliminating extreme poverty by 2020 , which calls for reductions in the number of poor people by 55 million , a line defined as just $ 354 per year or less than one per dollar every day .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historic record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from reading leon trotsky that has recognized something about revolutions . ccp rule may not last , but an alternative – national failure and civic chaotic chaos – might be far worse than the status quo . dictatorships are thought to be indestructible prior to falling , trotsky recalled us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable as soon as they were overthrown . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to become calamitous . another explanation is the fear of contemplating autocracy .
neusoft ’s devices look like little personal computers with sensors in the us . neusoft began almost as a low-cost competitor to an oracle corporation . after move in to produce car audio facilities , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began to hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray machines , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as that created by boeing , philips , siemens , siemens , siemens , and toshiba ) . liu came to realize that neusoft might link a standard of intel chips and his own imaging software in a wide range of digital sensors . suddenly , a new enterprise had been born .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the eurozone , but across all of europe . throughout germany , there has been endless debates about german identity politics – what one historian has called the continual appearance of what is germans may mean . inside germany , too , have used endless debates about german identity , which means what one historian has called the continual quarrel of what is german might mean . now the “ berlin republic ” is very secure about its own identity , and seemingly at sea in its dealings with the world . but , on the foreign-policy front , the postwar west germany , and later reunified germany , was wholly predictable : never against the west ; always for more europe .
tom watson , the jr. , who led ibm through three decades of robust growth , is well known for having subsidized brilliant blunders . as he put it , we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risks … . we need to pardon mistakes that have been made because someone is trying to act more aggressively in the company ’s interest . indeed , startup companies exemplify the potential value of risk-taking . and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s assessment , the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within earth ’s inner earth , proved critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . while only about 49 % of the world ’s manufacturing startups and 37 % of the information startups survive for four or more years , those managing the breakthrough innovations have failed .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not gain traction with war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the greatest threat comes from netanyahu . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by us sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move that originally bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also inflamed the authorities ’ broadly reviled pension reform , which entails raising the retirement age . in putin ’s view , he rooted for trump ( but of course did n’t interfere in trump ’s behalf ) , because they shared a desire to improve the bilateral relationship . now , more than ever before , putin needs america ’s global friendship . though he has been reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since slumped to 45 % .
in south korea , the imf urged selling the country ’s banks to american investors , even as koreans managed their own economy impressively for more than four decades , with greater growth , more stability , and indeed without the systemic scandals that have marked america ’s financial markets with so frequency . in some cases , american firms bought us banks , held on them until korea recovered and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains through taxation . in its haste to have westerners purchase the banks , the imf forgot one of the detail : ensuring that south korea can regain , at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether american investors had more credit in emerging-market banking can be debatable ; that they had more expertise in corporate tax avoidance is not . to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represent ) profits from capital market liberalization : they are making their money as capital flows out as it flows out , and in a restructuring that occurs in the ensuing havoc .
princeton – on january 1 , anne parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , died . of all the philosophers whom i have known since began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest to a genius . parfit was no more than a household name ; he was also out of office . just over a year earlier , in an opinion poll on a leading philosophy website , parfit voted the most important living anglophone philosopher . getting into the psychic argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he already thought of any response that i could make to his arguments , thought several possible replies , and recognized the objections of each reply as well as the best counters in those objections .
there have been very few therapeutic and diagnostic possibilities in the us . even a fundamental test like a cat scan would require the transport to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful is a government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , and its stigma attached to a malady that is often sexually transmitted . on paper , a hospital appears well staffed and properly equipped , but on my desktop rounds , i found the halls and wards deserted and barren .
comparing the outcomes of the two simulations suggests that large palestinian labor flows to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining its competitiveness . indeed , what business policies might actually boost its exports of goods rather than labor ? but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under the other strategy than that of the israeli labor market itself , which is gradually reopened for palestinian labor . this confirms the enormous short-lived welfare cost to palestinian society of halting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor ’s access to the israeli labor market . such simulations also suggest that continued reliance on labor exports to lower the palestinian economy ’s growth potential than does a development strategy based on exporting goods .
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after more than 30 years in power , many hoped that the economic decline that he oversaw would soon be reversed . but , a year and a half later , the us economy is showing no sign of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting us interests elsewhere in the world . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , iran could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
china believes that it has found its own model for development and modernization , and its rulers regard the games in much the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev did as a means of “ “ “ selling ” their model to a global audience . ” evidently , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in electing an architect whose name carried such murky historical connotations . but in this case , when france borrows essential features of its father ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s architectural principles and serves a regime to try to use the games for some of the same reasons that had animated hitler , is it not readily reflected the sins ? totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal their status to the world . the name of speer itself probably did not matter to the officials chosen to choose it .
the path to square that manifest circle can be seen by observing that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it stands for noble and universal values . it is this philosophical position that has practical ramifications . in the recent dutch elections , liberals might have argued for upholding the rights of immigrants , because respect and tolerance are the traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride . these are examples of what the late philosopher jürgen habermas has called “ constitutional patriotism ” ( others have called it “ civic patriotism ” ) . macron can proudly call himself a french patriot because france gave the world liberté , égalité and fraternité .
to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong opposition not only from its dictators and warlords , but even of its elected leaders , especially us president donald trump . in april , when the icc set out whether to follow through on its investigation of war crimes in afghanistan – including by any that could perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked a visa of the court ’s ’s chief prosecutor . if the icc were to fulfill the role it created , it can neither bow to that pressure nor allow its deficient performance to continue . carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility , undermining its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , the conservative government fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as motivation , demonstrating that it is up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have held the center of world financial debates for two years . the reasons are manifold : given that the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries maintain ultra-low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growth emerging-market economies unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the recession . this asymmetry has spurred enormous capital inflows from the former to the latter , which are likely to continue . compounding the problem , one of the countries of firm expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues its paramount global currency . emerging economies fear that this flood of capital will drive their currencies to rein in exchange rates , in addition to fueling the current-account and asset bubble that past experience has taught them is a certain recipe for future crises .
greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to using genetically modified ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the establishment of a “ beta carotene ” convert in the human body to a death of vitamin a drug ( gmos ) . moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on high ground , but they do not doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , especially in parts of africa and southeast asia . the deficiency also increases susceptibility to illnesses like measles , still a significant cause of deaths among young children , though one that is declining as a result of vaccinations . according to the world health organization , it causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 presage children every year , about half of whom die within the age of 12 months . in some countries , inadequate vitamin a is also a major determinant of high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth .
the implication of this was clear . in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that the excess demand for some particular set of assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which in turn generated the excess supply of workers in labor markets . when relief is provided to finance assets , you also cured the excess supply of good goods and services ( shortcoming to aggregate demand ) and the excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) . so what lessons can history teach us about our current global economic predicament ?
it is a gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . it is a gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the global problems alone . this is why chan zuckerberg initiative has been designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funds to be offloaded into nonprofits , directed toward private investment , or used to prop up policy debates . similarly , the bec has committed to boosting the work of others by taking “ a flexible early-stage ” approach , lending seed , angel , and series investment – with the expectation that once such investments are de-risking , traditional commercial capital will invest anyway at a later stage .
the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it made the world a fairer and more just place , where a person of old economic destiny does not depend quite so much on where they came to be born . but a more cynical view pervades the populist logic – namely , that , in its excessive adherence to globalism , america has sown the seeds of its own era of political and economic ruin . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks that it can do something about it . the aim is not simply to “ “ bring home ” american jobs , but to shape a system that will expand american dominance . american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class .
one approach would maximize deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and american forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in south korean terms . but a more conventional power would add little to the capacity forces already on the ground , bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would force only both sides to be more anxious ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear forces already pack a sufficient punch to strengthen deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the assumption that this might enhance communication , thereby substantially mitigating the nuclear threat . but , under such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize requests as the withdrawal of american forces from the region , as well as from the economic and energy assistance needed to prop up the regime . ultimately , north korea ’s ’s ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation that it needs to stay in power .
the narrative is similar in the leading two exceptions to a right-wing resurgence in europe , greece and spain . in spain , most migrants until recently came from culturally like latin american countries . in both countries , the far right had lacked the upper ground it had elsewhere . so a populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took left-wing forms . in greece , the main policy fault line has been the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund .
british and american negotiators have jointly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the case of the june 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . at the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program , in exchange for eventual end to pariah status . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced any wmd effort . eight years later , pinned on america ’s predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise . this was matched by critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew top-down regime change .
the math is simple : more people means everyone gets less . a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . why , then , is rapid population growth really bad for a country ’s standard of living ? botswana ’s incredible annual per capita income growth , at roughly 13 % over the past decade , was accompanied by a shortfall of almost six children per woman to below four . child quality in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
this does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but it does mean an understanding that even a democracy has a multitude of rules – ideally those of which a majority has chosen . the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and most likely a political party – rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the crowd to govern the country . but that does mean an understanding that even a democracy has many of the rules of the game , ideally those rules that a majority has chosen . like it or not , they can not do that as a flower child brigade ; they need picking up leaders who can talk for them and negotiate for them .
rising incomes ; rising health-care demand , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology create new job opportunities . given the secular and occupational distribution of those opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to take advantage of them . given the secular and occupational distribution of these opportunities , more women may be slightly better positioned to take advantage of them . in fact , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance personnel , and this sector could comprise a fourth of the future job opportunity for women ( production accounts for a similar proportion of potential female job gains ) . assuming that current gender occupational and secular patterns hold , more women could access as much as 20 % more jobs today , compared to just 19 % for men .
put straight across the aisle with me , there was putin , sitting between a one-time dissident cellist , and a conductor garpovich , and his equally famous wife , opera diva galina vishnevskaya , and his equally famous wife , opera divina vishnevskaya . russia ’s ’s ’s leader was like kid in a candy store – thrilled to confront these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were evidently flattered by putin ’s own adoration ( and close-knit , through their proximity to power ) . as he came to see through , i was once before witnessing putin courting populist culture , only to learn that he was protected from them . it was a novel year ’s eve of 2003 , during a concert at newly-opened home in moscow .
in an attempt to revive growth in an increasingly difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy in november 1997 . but , soon , gdp growth began to deteriorate rapidly . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to fall , producer prices were already depressed for eight months , and it remained negative for more than 51 months , with the cpi rate beginning to recover after more than 39 months . but , too little , it was too little , too late . an obvious lesson is that the government should have a switched to loosening earlier , more forcefully .
if so , can their views be reconciled ? neither , nor yes , the answer may be . both piketty and blanchard ’ perspectives may indeed be reconciled , for they talk of different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on rates on low-risk government-bond yields , piketty is worried about a return to risky capital investments . so , has we now moved from piketty ’s r > g world to the blanchard of the world ’s blanchard ?
by contrast , in contrast to their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital recently – and much of that was in their creative accounting terms , rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder equity . maybe the risk that a greek debt restructuring might bring about a financial meltdown was always minimal , and quiescent markets have been on the lookout for need . the banks have not failed , and there is no sign that they were flooding the dominican republic . but , in that case , why not nearly everybody the fuss ? but that is not because the banks are ready for themselves by increasing more capital .
that way , an economically irrational lock-hit effect , whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs , is avoided at all times . moreover , benefits are generous enough to ensure that a short period of high unemployment does not prompt workers to sell their homes , or even cars . and , rather than solving all forms of economically caused private problems , laid-off workers may concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs . in the scandinavian countries , opposition to , say , germany and the us , the us government , not the individual company , bear the most of all welfare benefits . the system protects not just the unemployed , who can continue paying their mortgages and interest , but also , indirectly , the banks , because their lending to households is repaid in times of recession .
but , having endured currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate vast reserves to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has disappeared . while financial globalization has not bolstered growth , it has aggravated volatility and instability . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk in size since the crisis . public investment and basic social protection can help to turn that around , by creating millions of jobs .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ to attack the institutions of the family , to regard it with contempt or to question its important role , ” the pope and the grand imam state “ are one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” after all , iran and america have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the document asserts that the family is the “ essential nucleus of society and humanity ” and “ essential ” in bringing its children into the world , raising them , educating them , and providing them with robust elements of moral creation and domestic
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . unless youth-socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will prove impossible . yet it is broadly recognized that the world ’s young people are often left behind . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , iran could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . frequently , they face inadequate economic opportunities , and may well end up being socially or politically excluded .
no country took more land from china in the nineteenth century than russia did ; the current demographics in the far east – where russians number six million and population on the chinese side of their border was up to 120 million – adds to a anxieties in moscow . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming the alliance ’s junior partner , having become more dependent on china than on china . while trade has grown , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . russia ’s economic decline has heightened its concern about china ’s rise . according to feng yujun fudan university , “ the single most important relationship for the us is that of america . ”
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known fable of crooks and lamb , wolf easily could have dined a lamb without the word but prefers setting out its “ reasons . ” wolf ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ justifications ” for his ill action has been a luxury of allowing for just such action . first , he scolds because he muddying his drinking water ( even when wolfgang schäuble has been upstream ) . he then argues that when the lamb was not a lamb , it was his father ; after it was , it was only six months old ) it . he then argues that in phaedrus last year , it was bad names ( but that cob was just six months old ) .
the targeted killing by the united states by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not serve the global war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting us interests elsewhere in the world . arlington , virginia , the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing over the presidency to military-grade , minority-bullying , media-bashing , media-bashing promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not speaking for the trump administration ’s 2016 presidential election , which put donald trump in power , but rather the midterm elections in brazil , won the so-called trump of the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
she then quickly went to davos for a long time to present a long celebratory speech about the heroism of america ’s soldiers “ struggle for freedom ” abroad . that latest surge of american populism is a fund for some extraordinarily wealthy men , including a few of the iron-fisted oil billionaires , in name david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the far wealthy and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as the social security administration and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . this agenda might seem a selfish bit , however understandable , from the standpoint of an oil-billionaire . this most recent surge of american populism is funded by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including the one most visible of the oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the far wealthy and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as the social security administration and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . this agenda might seem a selfish mindset , however understandable from the standpoint of an oil-billionaire .
while the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to a belief that gives francis i considerable political leverage . the start of his papacy finds populist governments in fragile circumstances , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . of course , they all have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss the protective shield between chávez ’s global influence , as well as for his subsidies . moreover , they govern the country in which catholics constitute an overwhelming majority . latin america will undoubtedly be one of francis ’s priorities .
we must lead the world by deed and its example . not even the revelations by the former intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from any potential american surveillance has stirred up america to claim a novel approach . but obama can not do this alone , and , so far , neither the american public nor america ’s congress seems committed to revitalizing with its moral compass . the answer to the other major questions shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recapture its economic momentum , also seems to be “ “ no , ” at least in the short term , with the vast majority of specialists agreeing that china ’s export-oriented – and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential . for example , it should be unacceptable for congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by a national-security official committee .
this paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing the entire genome , about rarer genomic variation , which is related to treatment responses or spillover effects . genotyping can now be accomplished by up to 20 minutes and receives far more rapid growth over time . in order to fill any one ’s prescription for a drug with an known pharmacogenomic profiles , a customer can enable rapid genotyping to identify adequate doses of drugs , drugs , or predilection for severe side-effects . nevertheless , there has been substantive and notable advances in each of these areas .
from banks ’ perspective , the clearest lesson has been the need for a strong national government to shoulder the potential cost of rescue . very large banks in small territories , with small-scale governments , are also vulnerable . it is no longer best to be subject to even the most benign regulatory regime , but to be where the state has its deepest pockets . the financial crisis has produced a fresh answer to where the greatest competitive advantages lie . the u.s. is big enough to manage its behemoths such as the bank of america or citigroup .
so far , we have done comparable analyses about the fates of the caribbean and the indian oceans , following the initial human touch , but the massive numbers of extinctions have occurred there as well , too . early european exploration may have continued this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains that they find in caves , for example , where the bones can survive . early european exploration will probably continue this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from their skeletal remains found in caves , for example , where the bones itself will survive .
the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its geopolitical dimension ; but this , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terror threat for years to come . syria , iran , yemen , and libya are all dealing with a mix of syria ’s civil and proxy wars . the plight of more than one million refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden to the countries in the region and europe . and europe is already confronting many important challenges , including russian aggression toward ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth . iran ’s nuclear pact at best addresses one aspect of iranian power and is only for a limited period .
this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . droughts have struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have suffered major water shortfalls . those movements have created the space to forward-thinking policymakers to take action . deadly wildfires have taken lives and wiped out billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . still , the climate crisis continues to increase , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go .
the stakes for both africa and america are high . we owe it to our offspring – and , to the leaders of silicon savannah entrepreneurs , already leading the charge , to get it right . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and burgeoning middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with america will be vital for africa ’s continued growth and development . this , in turn , is the start of an important dialogue with the us . the decisions we make now will have implications for the generations to come .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with both the concepts and realities of their strategic strength . such was the case in france , under louis xiv , the sunni king in the 1800s , and such was that of today ’s china , whose leadership is comfortable with the classical european balance-of-power games . to understand india ’s geopolitical and diplomatic relations with the outside world , however , the most enlightening comparisons are with america in 1920 . on purely thought and reality , india is strongly at ease with the conception and reality of its strategic power . on economically relevant , india has fueled trust in the way that the western world now looks at it with a mixture of respect and greed : “ “ what ” deals might i give to such an emerging market , whose population would soon be any of the world ’s largest ?
in both america and europe , for example , people who refer to themselves as conservative ” on matters of us economic policy believe that equality of opportunities exist for all children , and that their countries ’ free-market economies are fair . the reverse holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” such people favor government intervention because they think that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and may even generate greater inequality . such people favor government intervention because they think that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and may even generate more inequality . in the us and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of us economic policy believe that equality for all children is equal opportunities , and that their countries ’ free-market economies are fair .
once upon a time , there was a lot of a relatively small department-stores and other vendors with headquarters spread throughout america and outlets in a few towns . these headquarters brought income into their own city by providing back-office services to their network of shops . but retail consolidation , powered partly by walmart and amazon , dealt a deathblow to many of these firms . as a result , the disruption can be caused not just by industrial shutdowns . the grocer , a computer store and barber out of business , and everybody leaves on , turning the location to a ghost town .
as a result , the republicans must now choose between passing their own tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the us public debt ) and pursuing a far more modest reform . either way , the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans would object to a reckless increase in us public debt . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion income shortfall over the next decade , and they can not plug that hole in the saving rate from their health-care reform plan or the $ 1.2 trillion that could be expected from a bat . either the bat has no us backing , even among republicans , and it would violate world trade organization rules .
part of the analytical attractiveness of the national income accounts is that they add up . such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances that were unaffected by the data revision . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , it will borrow less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . but that has not happened in this case , either . at the same time , its net export position and its current-account balance improves .
first , when it comes to fighting climate change , the important thing is to look like one is doing something . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a prime example . countries managing that can get away with massaging . countries have made a grandiose commitment to let the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all of their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what is needed . new analysis shows that just 17 countries , including algeria and samoa , are actually meeting their pledges , in most cases because they have promised very little .
earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories sought to achieve legally binding agreements on emissions reductions , not least for the industrialized countries that generated much of the greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered – owing partly to american intransigence under president george w. bush , and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a accord to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( of which the united states had never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely demanded that countries achieve voluntary pledges to cut their own emissions by concrete amounts . thai siberian permafrost would emit a huge amount of global methane . as a result , vast areas of our planet , currently back to a billion people , could become unlivable .
along the same lines during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for preventive diplomacy and mandatory consultations when the threat to any state is at stake . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine may have been averted . but the fault also must be shared with the entire european political class , the civil-society institutions , and the media . while i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is very difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing these and other “ european ” visions ” in the archives of the eu .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . sweden , which will run an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel industry . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts the biggest onwind farm ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria is at the forefront when it comes to greener buildings . yet , as european leaders have increasingly recognized , it is time to hit the accelerator . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked with led by power talks at the un summit , has integrated vast quantities of wind power into its electricity grid .
in fact , prejudices have tended to fall as participation increases . one outcome of the agreement is the paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with difference . ” because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , it is time for americans to use different kinds of people , and so to differentiate those differences that could hurt a country from those that do not . it has been in nobody of the interest to disturb this thuggish and let-live pragmatism for very long . tolerance for another human religion is a price well paid for tolerance .
this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential . this is why when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark malloch brown have asked us to lead a new commission on the private sector and development , we agreed . the business-as-usual energy is already there : visits from the tiniest town in the poorest country on market day , and one sees the private sector in action . based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which has opened itself up to foreign investment and trade ; and in canada , which heads aid and a major source of private investment in the developing world -- we are now confident that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and fixed . if small enterprises could expand beyond village square , they could drive the growth of their countries even better than any aid agency .
there can be no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even as he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama , from firing cruise missiles over japan to conducting his frequent purges at home , indicates that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump back to the table . so far , he has proved highly effective at keeping the bromance alive and approaching the coming summit on track . what he does not do is regardless of when his second summit occurs , that north korea ’s regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state fails to provide basic security : the olympic ice-skating medalist in july 2018 , denis ten , was murdered on broad day in kazakhstan ’s biggest city , almaty , for attempting to keep his car mirrors from stolen . it has also turned the heat on simmering social unrest , boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protests ) . all of this has made emigration an increasingly salient possibility , particularly for young people , raising the specter of a potential brain drain .
but , whenever the kingdom tried to clamp down on public-sector hiring , unemployment increased . under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plans for privatized firms and improved their civil-service productivity will in fact doom jobs occupied by saudis . the challenge of job creation for the saudis might appear as a riches problem . but simple substitution will not do so , either . some would argue that all the kingdom needs is a substitute for saudi foreigners in existing positions .
but for the money to have value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate not only contradicts a very notion of money ; it is completely idiotic . the whole point is that it enables parties to transact without having to barter . but so is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money in the first place . in the american case , the reasons that the us does not use euros or yen alongside dollars are apparent : doing so would have been nonsensical , making the economy much less efficient .
that means ensuring that the disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism can not be delivered a long-term , systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . minimizing the fallout will require both parties to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to build up their own positions are self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism . the trade war has cast this lesson in sharp relief . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dry than the cold war was . the cool war is threatening to undermine these efforts , because confronting america at the negotiating table requires that china strengthen its own standing above all .
our price-and-rebate mechanism is thus inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , where buyers of new vehicles are taxed or given a bonus depending on the vehicles for their co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeds the worldwide per capita emissions average would pay a specified amount , on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . they are also emphasizing the knock-on benefits that taking rapid action on climate change might have , including by reducing local pollution , greater energy and food insecurity , and faster innovations . to accelerate its move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; involve a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and verification ; and provide powerful economic incentives on a global scale . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that such international cooperation could enable the rapid reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere .
three months ago , i argued that all but a distressing and politicized fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn and i was right . i was also correct to say that all but a diminutive and deflationary fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of system-wide stability , in order to prevent the risk that the payment system will collapse from becoming a first-order consideration boosting the demand for cash to unnatural levels . so expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations of a central bank is one item on the checklist of what to be done in a financial crisis . in the absence of excess demand for monetary finance , there will be no excess supply of bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital . by purchasing government bonds for dollars , the central bank can meet demand , pushing down the price of cash .
the eastward enlargement of nato and the european union , they contend , exposed an unnecessary provocation . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the wall ’s demise , accused the west of not keeping any of the promises it made in 1989 , instead accepting “ nato ’s weakening ” advantage in the 1990s to assert “ monopoly leadership and global domination , ” including through nato enlargement . there are obvious limits to this theory , and set about it , to some extent . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s expansion in the 1990s on precisely those grounds . for starters , it derives from claims that at the height of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west promised that nato would expand nato .
the international monetary fund , too , has gotten into action . while its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , no doubt remains conscious of the panglossian view that it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to a sudden tightening of financial-sector conditions ” and that the “ equity valuations ” that have emerged in some markets . against this background , “ some ” is the imf ’s code for the united states . here , “ some ” is the imf ’s code of conduct for the united states . america ’s share of global equity valuations has been the top it ever was , a notable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity .
which interest rates are the best way to make comparisons a matter , as are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use an often-government-led bond — adjusted for inflationary expectations . i have also developed what i have called the deutsche mark , which corrects an “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the real interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone . that is why it was the redenomination for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as it from june 7 , at € 1 : $ 1,0590 . given that the dollar still traded at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this indicates that the dollar is actually about 6 % , weaker than it should be . now , no more than 6 % , is not an especially large gap , and that finding might mean nothing at all .
the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharelbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments , hoping to get their money back . the kazakh government scrambling to encourage its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up and decided to pull the plug . but – and here ’s where its debts were written , the banking system is now being recapitalized and with an ability to foster economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh start generated an impressive turnaround . the banks defaulted on their loans , and their creditors took large “ haircuts ” ( reduction of principal value ) .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time we get just 8 % of its 760,000 children under five years old . just $ 230 per year per person is available for basic necessities like water , food , shelter , and less than $ 10 per child going to an education . this year must be an education ’s moment – a window of opportunity opened by a fresh consensus that education is critical to achieving united nations sustainable development goals , including by lowering maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to questions about gender equality . but , most important , that is education is just our moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holding a book up an insurgent ’s arms in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda are making education for their children their top priority , and when lights saw from space might include child clusters huddled by candlelight to read and study , we know that education ’s moment has come .
over the past two decades , the world has grew accustomed to us-led international coalitions of war in the middle east . and secretary of state james baker has used it to transcend the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . president jimmy carter used it to win the 1978 camp david accords , establish diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . if the america can not deliver that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on the resolution of international conflict . it is time for the american people to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defusing the iranian nuclear dispute , turn north korea ’s behavior into action , or stop a syrian civil war with its own people .
by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to the terrorists not just in the balkans but around the world . if not , the un , nato , nato , and the european union disavow the actions as much as the humanitarian values that they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . if the world can not eliminate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope does such a defeat for terrorism have come elsewhere ? kosovo is a region far fewer than afghanistan ’s . so , prior to the us-led anti-terror campaign seeks second terrorist bases to crush it , it should eliminate terror in an area with which the un itself rules .
davos – the view that an individual gene could account for a full biological trait is as old as “ genetics itself . ” as time passed and on scientific knowledge accumulated -- much of it by fruit fly -- the true complexity of the relationship between our genes and their characteristics became starkly apparent . whether describing the genes for the color of flower space in pea plants or the shape of the fruits flying fly 's wings , geneticists early in the last century believed that each gene governed one unique characteristic . soon a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ drafts , ” and “ criminality ” might all be pinned on individual genes as well . ” if the relationship between fruits fly genes and behaviors is so complicated , could it be any less so with humans ?
and , after all , one can not have a definitive , utopian society without having its ultimate , scientific , ethical theory of human behavior alongside certain mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the whole issue . the problem is that no matter how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , they remain false . like boxing and poker things , it is soft-spoken , restrained , private form of warfare . to be sure , capitalism entails a struggle among individual people over control of scarce resources . for centuries , military strategists have known that there is ; no definitive science of warfare .
paris – earlier this week , following days of intense debate , greece ’s new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that comprising an interim reform package and a four-month extension of the eu ’s financial assistance program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , compromise does not preclude the need for further tough negotiations on a new program for fiscal aid , which are expected to be introduced in late june . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the eu would be highly disruptive , which explains why very little support there is in the country . in that case , the matter is greece ’s exit costs ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone , a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media throughout the recent negotiations with greece , with substantial speculation over the stance taken by the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . in any negotiation , the key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each of either .
elections in nations that were strangers to democracy are never pretty , because afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and as any election in iraq , would most likely be . but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture ; they affect the future . consider kazakhstan , where five million people have cast ballots in september for their parliament ’s lower house of representatives . it was western media who judged the election of a failure that resulted . western media have judged it “ neither equitable nor free-riding . ”
it largely underlies the provision of public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . satisfying demand for such goods is itself a boon for growth . but , too , a reliable road generates tremendous additional activism , as trade increases among connected areas , and myriad enterprises , restaurants and hotels spring down the road . as india did away with its stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative to achieve economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 pro-development platform encapsulated in its slogan , “ shining ” india . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very powerful entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a number of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in trying to deliver these public goods .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , became poorer , and its economic structure became unfit to face new challenges , owing both to solid size and specialization in traditional sectors , as well as to low levels of education and r & d. still , berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could enact coherent supply-side reforms even at the risk of some early unpopularity . but nothing was done in order to deregulate product markets , or provide decent incentives for restructuring , while privatization came to a halt . a few reform was belatedly enacted : timid pension intervention and a further increase in labor-market flexibility .
yet , despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the resurgence of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . consider what happens on a few floors of one high-rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there are some 1,500 africans who process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock in three shifts . if not quite representing the african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries nonetheless may and must be re-promoted if africa is to thrive . africans are talking english , type at least 50 words per computer minute , take data from the paper claims supplied by america ’s leading health insurers through an electronic assembly , put it in new digital forms , and ships it back to america .
still , the westphalian system was devastated by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both of which were actually european wars of world domination . the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order wherein sovereignty had risen to the twin non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the purpose of this effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old authoritarian regimes of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and a hegemonic supreme leader . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , the europeans , even the victorious european allies , effectively losing their sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european states .
both in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank of stress tests . because many banks hold the bulk of the eurozone ’s sovereign debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it finds itself more forthright about the risks , there is the chance that several periphery countries might have difficulty plugging the holes and will require imf help in the north . one hopes that the ecb will forthrightly follow .
they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled mental-health-care delivery . they could also fund contests among socially conscious tech entrepreneurs to spur further innovations on this front . in order to tap robust privacy and accountability protocols , researchers should use fully representative trials among socially conscious actors and take care to adhere to rigorous privacy and accountability protocols . to be sure , such initiatives cost money . venture capital firms now spend as much as $ 3.2 trillion annually on global health research and development .
consider , for example , the harvard university growth laboratory that i founded in 2006 after two highly fulfilling policy “ engagements ” in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has been operating on more than three dozen countries and regions . yet the teaching-hospital model might well have been effective in public policy as well . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patient ” patients , ” ” ” ” ” or on governments in the us . in some respects , the laboratory looks a bit like a teaching and research hospital .
any sensible international trading regime must start from recognizing that it is neither feasible nor desirable to limit political space countries must design their own economic and social models . as one us business historian put it , americans “ were the pirates , too . ” the american people had patent laws , but they were protected only by us citizens . any sensible international trading regime had to start from recognition that it was neither feasible nor desirable to limit the political space countries had to project their own economic and social models . and the us did so mostly regarding british industrialists ’ commercial secrets as china today for american intellectual-property rights .
but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave for political global powers will start to take shape , and that will be the beginnings of the new international system . the second great change – ie , the end of the global ideological divide – also raises difficult and perhaps more complex questions . there exists today a basic , even on the occasion of the ritualistic , consensus on the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for a political organization with some form of the free market , with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private enterprise as the basis of economic activity . making all of these changes will be difficult to achieve . yes , one can debate the third way or both and a half passage , but these are essentially marginal debates .
risk would further mitigated through the participation of large , influential investors – including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and possibly international financial institutions – as well . finally , the nature of cash flow would enable a better predefined return structures than traditional flows of private or public capital can offer . bhe ’s developing would require a new platform of private-sector investment , structured to provide bespoke returns to its diverse participants . it would offer returns on equity investment closer to those yielded , but with some risk offset on its longer-term nature . public contributions , likely back-stop through both multilateral lenders , would provide the projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles .
depending on how soon china opens up its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near term . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even held small amounts of its currencies in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may prove to be less a signal of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low bet on its likely emergence as the widely accepted international currency . capital inflows – which will undoubtedly accelerate in the years ahead – are driven largely by investors ’ appetite for diversification and high-yield , rather than countries ’ image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are relatively under-developed and beset with massive risks . and countries ’ ’ desire to maintain good ties with china , owing to its rising economic might not be discounted .
amlo will almost surely sustain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy . and the american drug enforcement administration will not look graciously at any backtracking on any backtracking on previous mexican presidents ’ pledges to continue waging costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . the peasants in guerrero cultivate amazpola for the cartels , rather than for their own subsistence activities . of course , there are still other issues on the us-mexican agenda , ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . but trump is more interested in security than he is about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided .
the au has withstood military coups in spain in the past . the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo after the implementation of a law enabling president johnston to prolong his tenure . the au should show leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , in line with its goal of 2063 agenda . on its heels of its success in sudan , it must stand out against “ constitutional coups ” done by presidents , because it sets itself more decisively as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . in 2015 , permit the new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests .
fertility rates among immigrants are typically higher than in native european or north american families . but increasing the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise the birth rate . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance . germany , for example , has a huge number of guest workers , but very few settle there with their families ; most of it leaves its children in its zones . higher birth rates in the us , france , the uk , and france reflect the large numbers of immigrant families in individual countries .
the few that trump typically end up wearing a slap on the christ , with a company – meaning that its shareholders – pick up a modest fines . of course , there have been no repercussions , whatsoever , for cheney . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes are going un-noted . to be sure , the real culprits at trump ’s summit rarely have to be worried . the news almost made it into america ’s media .
greene found that humans tasked with making moral judgments about “ personal ” violations , like pushing an outsider off a footbridge , showed increased activity in regions associated with emotions . moreover , the minority of subjects who assumed that it would be right to push the foreigner off the footbridge took longer to reach that judgment than to those who said that doing so would be wrong . that was not the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ “ “ impersonal ” violations like dropping a switch . ” why , then , should our verdicts vary in this way ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate forebears – lived in small groups in which violence could be inflicted only on up-close and personal terms , by slamming , strangling , or using the stick or stone as a club .
in 1949 , britain found itself on the same front , with its trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling was devalued again , having more than 30 % in the first , for more than 30 % . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , followed by other partners . on the contrary , investors have every reason to take a wait-and-see attitude . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , they will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , followed by other partners .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and actions . in reality , relations with israel improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before – a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . indeed , power put refah to compromise , rather than extremes . turkey went on to permit the “ u.s.-led ” operation provides comfort ” against iraq in using turkish bases . it remained a vital nato member .
new york – in the 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s occupation of the profession , a play whose awards are the proprietor of a number of brothels . the play is not salacious and includes not coarse language , but it was eight years before it could be staged . its performance in new york in 1905 was raided . its opening in london in 1902 was now staged in a tiny theater “ club , ” ” ” ostensibly limited to members . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of the business of a university prostitution prostitution .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portends profound economic , political , and social ramifications . every year , some 13 million more young people look to africa for work , while only around three million are finding a job . the continent ’s youthful population is projected to double by 2050 to 840 million , and yet africa ’s school-age children and universities lack sufficient graduates with the technical skills to make tomorrow ’s workplace success . but the crisis may be averted , and one of the solutions may be just as simple as turning on the lights . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within ten years through its youth employment growth initiative , the immediate solution is not clear where those opportunities will emerge .
now plans are afoot to “ foster a future of peace and security in the middle east through a us-polish conference in warsaw in which the palestinians are unwilling to participate . ” but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever accept this design , as has been made clear in reports delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let the us be clear : the two-state solution does not mean accommodating the illegal reality of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s team ’s statements go in a different direction , more in keeping with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . they have failed to reckon that the palestinian people have both dignity and national pride , just as any other nation will insist on being treated accordingly .
at any rate , it is not as though avoiding talk about israel is a departure for sanders . nor does israel seem to figure much in its own jewish identity , which combines more than anything else to remembrance of the holocaust . sanders is no different in this regard than many other american jews in that regard . he has certainly never embraced israel as a cause of the political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians have . despite voicing his point of reference to the imperative , he has usually been un-outspoken on issues concerning the land .
not much has been said about human rights , much less women ’s own rights , and the word “ democracy ” has never passed trump ’s lips . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the chief business for america ’s people is a business . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the deal seems to have become a foundation for wonderful new friendships between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric by expressing his support for an israeli-palestinian peace .
because gold jumped to $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold does nothing to offset a decline in the dollar ’s value . a japanese investor that held dollar equities or real estate might instead have compensated the interest-rate loss via purchases of yen futures . tips or their equivalent to other governments provide safety hedges and explicit currency futures could compensate for exchange-rate risks . in short , there are smarter ways than gold to hedge the risk of inflation and exchange-rate risk . the same is true for a euro-denominated investor who would have gained not by holding gold but could have offset the decline in the dollar by buying euro futures .
munich – because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , each weakening the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant a weakening renminbi vis-à-vis the other global currencies . at the same time , europe has become nervous in the wake of the euro ’s exchange rate , which has risen to more than $ 1.40 , far above its purchasing power parity ( ppp ) rate of $ 1.17 . for china , the united states is now taking drastic steps against china , making provisions for a trade war . but is china really to blame for the eruption of a full-scale global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , singapore , peru , singapore , and many other countries are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against redenomination and thereby defending their exports .
but while such sources can provide some valuable insights , they do not fully meet the standards of the methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed global public conversation should be based . against this backdrop , a particularly important milestone will come with a revision , owing over the next three years , of the united nations ’ national account system . it is critical that the us is developing an internationally recognized set of indices and methods to screen income and wealth tracking . for these reasons , it is essential that researchers , news media , and civil-society organizations can gain wider attention . government statistical agencies should publish the top 1 % ’ income and wealth levels , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the efficient taxes that such groups pay .
it has become increasingly clear that the name will change ( trumpcare , ” anyone ? ) and one might expect the republican plan to cover fewer people ; but much of its substance remains the same . eliminating federal subsidies for health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government just under $ 100 billion a year , about 3 % of federal expenditures . but there are a great deal of cost to trump and congressional republicans that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replace obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , hillary clinton might tell them , is fearsomely complicated .
during cardoso ’s tenure , he privatized telecoms , the national mining company , and part of the electric sector . inflation collapsed , but high unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all risen sharply . social inequalities heightened , and brazil endured blackouts last year with blackouts and a electricity sale last year . since the campaign began , lula has shown power , particularly after the center-right candidate , roh ana sarney , slammed and burned when the federal police and prosecutors had discovered a load of cash in her husband in office . mr. and mrs. sarney was eventually absolved of all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
for $ 450 million , one could also purchase 180 million bed nets , enough to protect the 271 million people from malaria . ( for all of this interventions , the figures are probably much somewhat smaller because the charities impact calculator is n’t intended for such huge sums ; and so ignore that the costs will rise as soon as those of the simplest are met . ) in case you think that those receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , autonomous assessment has demonstrated that they are not . give directly ’s cash transfers increase the recipient of food security , hygiene and assets . when a person chooses to purchase “ salvator mundi ” rather than restoring sight to another nine million people , what says about their values ?
mail managers will also manage incoming messages , and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as clarified by the recipient , gather creditworthiness from senders ( or , more likely , the charge of their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . to begin , you can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , together with a list of people who can reach you for free . the recipient is unlikely to see its complexities ; most of that will be dealt with in the background . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as fewer mail get sent out , a higher proportion of it will be wanted and responded . there will be gags at the beginning , beginning with people who have multiple e-mail address , old friends not on your current white open senders list , and so on .
on trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s has acquired philosophy closely with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often a democrat-backing former self is yet another story ) . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by getting himself into the national security council after some in trump ’s administration – up until two of the generals in trump ’s administration – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now trump ’s chief of staff ) , have got him out . it was a mistake to view bannon as pyrrhic to trump ’s galatea , or , like some in trump ’s rasputin , as trump ’s rasputin . ( bannon was believed behind the recent us push to force out mcmaster , mostly by suggesting to be “ anti-israel . ” ) bannon has bolstered the nationalist impulse that led trump to overrule his own daughter , ivanka and his own economic advisers , by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement .
in fact , they mistrust each other too much to collaborate ; they mistrust each other too much . so creditor countries , led by germany , sought to do the minimum needed to keep the euro alive , while borrowers grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . no country ’s taxpayers wanted to feel that they are paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . in the meantime , demand in much of the european union remains weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to service debts and offer hope among the more than 25 million unemployed . parochial suspicion has been the primary impediment to grand solutions .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % against the eurozone average , by around 35 percentage points vis-à-vis germany , in order to restore external-debt sustainability . the french economy , in turn , is suffering because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . cheap credit ushered in by the european fed ’s inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . borrowing conditions deteriorated promptly , and what was left was the deeply overpriced rump of economies that had become prohibitively dependent on foreign financing . the ecb and the international community – particularly the international monetary fund – have attempted to cope with the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public borrowing .
to be sure , the encyclopedias are never meant to be read with cover to disguise . the author finds at a fist page and follows a series of questions for one to see how it reaches its conclusions . the same happens even when one reads philosophy of , say , husserl . if i want to know whether napoleon had met kant , i drove volumes of volumes k and n to discover that napoleon was made in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 . it is possible that the two met each other .
what does it mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iran , switzerland , or any other political entity ? letting them in might produce a more sophisticated team , but it would no longer be our team in the us . from one perspective , this is but another case of emotion defeat the economics logic behind us . at the heart of the issue is the us ’s sense of “ us . ” but our emotions are law-abiding algorithms , bequeathed by an evolution by which we make most of our decisions , including politics ; economic cost-benefit analysis , which does n’t connect to our emotional compass , do n’t move the needle .
both islam and democracy , for example , are what some of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states show that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , which appears to loggerheads with democracy . when a government sprang out of credibly fair elections , and an elected government manages to fill the most important political offices , the country is considered “ electorally competitive . ” this conclusion stems from comparing muslims to “ electoral competitiveness . ” yet a careful study conducted by the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist .
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects potential applications and diffusion of technology . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse research using recombinant dna or “ “ genetic engineering , ” techniques . on the other side , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger rightly noted that venter accomplished “ represents ” technical pre-advance , rather than a conceptual case . other scientists have noted that the organism is indeed only “ a semi-synthetic one , ” ” ” because a synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of its dry weight in a cell ) was introduced to ordinary or non-synthetic , bacterium . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . )
paris – with subdued demand in the advanced countries now impediments to growth in the emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has arrived to its end . nothing could be further from the truth , either . that process began in the late 1980s , and has continued unabated in the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence accelerated further after , and just after that , the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : annual aggregate average real per capita income growth averaged just more than four percentage points during the period of 2008-2012 , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades preceding . as i argued previously , the convergence among emerging countries ’ pursuit of real average incomes at the aggregate level , with advanced-country advanced countries ’ incomes also supposedly continuing in 2020 .
that belief has been well suited to both the major political parties that have been governing . it is unfair to cede more power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to give labour , which controls the 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons disproportionately , saying over what is happening in england . labour has sought to avoid a full-scale constitutional debate because any move in the direction of the federal government requires resolving the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its belief in the union of the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate about how the union can modernize . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to france , we must change how we govern ourselves .
that means reaching out to us public figures to solicit on-record corrections , manage complaints with standards agencies , and furnishing training to media organizations . likewise , it means working with tech companies to find ways to block the widespread circulation of misinformation , including across international boundaries . at the same time , fact-checkers organizations should not simply focus on tackling fake information ; they must also identify the sources of robust information and point their readers and followers to them . this is the approach taken by our organizations and , as small-scale and under-resourced as they are , the impact already appears to be apparent . and we should work with schools and other education platforms to help train people to identify fake or misleading claims .
london – one of the most dispassionate features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by a world of 23,000 nuclear weapons , and by those to build more of them or be only too willing to use them , has ever been consigned to a margin of politics . us president barack obama captured global attention with his prague spring speech in 2009 that made a compelling case for a nuclear-armed weapon-free world . and he delivered a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and material to theft or diversion . nonetheless , the nuclear issue still struggles for the public resonance and political traction of the us . it would take a brave gambler to bet on ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty by the american senate any time soon .
a 2013 report by the american society of civilian engineers gave the american people a pathetic overall d of the d + grade for their infrastructure . the report concludes that $ 3.6 trillion in investment from the us ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s yearly gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost the quality of america ’s infrastructure by tackling the “ considerable backlog of overdue maintenance [ and the ] pressing need for modernization . ” it seems self-evident that a more developed us economy demands an adequate , sustained investment in public goods . yet the us infrastructure state suggests that many decision-makers do not share that view . the report cited numerous state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges , and a $ 44.5 billion required to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products virtually resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that the drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces the harm associated with drugs . governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but in this it gets a mistake to perceive a prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . indeed , for this reason , prohibition really represents an inherent abdication of regulation . whatever is not repressed is effectively unregulated , except by rampant criminal organizations .
for starters , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ protecting fish sources by regulating the amount of fish taken from the sea by allowing young fish to reproduce and by ensuring that such measures are adhered to . ” as it stands , we have “ fished down ” our stocks , up to a very few large , old individuals remain . ” this is for the best of reasons – fish that are caught while too little will produce a tiny yield . moreover , a fish will have no chance of redesigning , undermining fish stocks entirely . to see this , consider the northern marine cod .
with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions , and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ambitions as a kind of post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians , and typically account for 86 % , support him on everything from the annexation of crimea to its latest term as president . the truth about what people actually feel remains impossible to know . after all , autocrats often mistake their peoples ’ proclamations of their love and admiration for the real thing .
financing from the parent banks that , in the earlier phases of the crisis , helped to provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems now looks more like a liability and a possible source of contagion . but this was probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package that made those practices most widespread . yet this vulnerability was largely created , or at least accommodated , by the west bank . it was also for the west ’s european financial regulators and supervisors , who , under “ home rule , ” were designed to fend off these excesses . the intrusion of foreign banks also effectively deprived countries at the expense of monetary policy tools in central and eastern europe , leaving them with little control of extraordinarily rapid credit expansion .
emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have responded to violent extremism above all by putting a “ hard – hard – security first . ” but that strategy has not reduced extremist groups ’ potency or reduced its reach . in fact , there is mounting evidence that an exclusive response by a single military anywhere can be a drain of resources or even do more harm than good . add to this the misadventure of ethnic and religious pluralism , stirring up in the great and growing cohorts of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and the continent is offering ideal conditions for mayhem . what is missing is a wider reassessment of the root causes , particularly underlying development challenges .
still , it seems bizarre to be holding that the state may fundamentally prohibit the sale of a product , but may not permit it to be marketed only in packs that carried graphic images of the damage it causes to human health . the tobacco industry will now be taking its battle against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization ( wto ) . the industry worries that it could be written off the law in much larger markets , such as india and china . moreover , wherever health-care costs reach everyone – including the us , with its public-health-care programs for the poor and elderly , everyone pays the costs of going after cigarette treatment . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is yet another issue , because doing so would undoubtedly create some new source of revenue for organized crime .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , investing in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , unprepared , 2,000 lives disappeared . climate-change policies are not the best way to diminish the impact of weather disasters . the united nations framework convention , for its part , refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the calamities they feared were linked to climate change . a recent rand study estimated that the united states , with its funding for disaster loss-absorbing researchers in 2003 , amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research for this year .
the g-20 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stance represents a potent challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this dismaying australia , the conservative host government that struggled to stop the issue from taking root even ; the australian public nonetheless wavered , and promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions target in the formal g-20 ’s endorsement of “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” other formal outcomes at the g20 ’s meetings were agreements – backed more politics detail than most commentators had expected – to spur stronger global growth . in particular , leaders focused specifically on investment , trade , competition , and on empowering more women to work ; on fairness , the international tax system ; and on how to target corruption .
if you want to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial settings as versailles is certain to prove effective . many of those who voted for macron may have hopes for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . but reveling in the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s monarchical history can be a dangerous thought . if you choose to impress both russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial sums of settings as versailles is certain to prove effective . but , now , they may think much more like louis xvi , the king who has paid for the lifetime in his predecessors ’ disfavor .
and that is precisely what the us economy gained in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policies activism on the part of the american federal reserve . the change was so notable for a growing number of policymakers ’ fall into the trap of projecting a fast rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , merely befitting what had proven to be a protracted and complex recovery process . for many , the world economic summit held in london in april 2009 marks the point that america ’s economy turned the corner . as they intervened , american policymakers were consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take their supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of the most successful periods of global policy coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging economies .
the us recession of 2008 was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . that massive loss of wealth created a large and persistent drop in consumption demand , causing unemployment to rise . the us stock market ’s fall against its trend of nearly 50 % since its peak in 2007 , and remains down by almost a third . that enormous loss of wealth caused a large and persistent decline in consumption demand , leading to rising unemployment . fear feeds on itself , with the implicit prediction that stocks will lose value became self-fulfilling .
that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report blazing a sobering spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . it is imperative , first and foremost , that the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson has failed to buy a las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or to capture israeli media for cash . a free and healthy news media are indispensable to a well-functioning democracy , but at all costs . as the media landscape increasingly pays itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . when the latter is protected , we must defend the former at all costs .
up until now , merkel had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . that will change very quickly , particularly given the possibility of nato ’s troop increases in afghanistan . both the black and yeltsin ’s victory , moreover , have defined the alternative : red , dark red , and green . from now on , she will require a trait her absent : leadership and decision-making skills . the political camps of old , left and right remain .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage dependence on public transportation to make our streets enjoyable and safely safe for walking ( particularly those for women and for the disabled ) . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transportation , and power to consume more . this includes the creation of more efficient power systems and increasing our investment in renewable resources ( which will , one hopes , create employment in our process ) . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water and water infrastructure , so that this precious resource can be reused more slowly and on a city-wide scale . at the same time , we can provide incentives for households to consume less energy , with companies cutting back on the amount of energy that they waste .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu no doubt has reason to celebrate . he surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office , following his right-wing likud party gained a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . netanyahu finagled that outcome , – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlements on the occupied territories , will almost certainly have severe political and diplomatic consequences for israel . nonetheless , celebration is likely to be short-lived . netanyahu ’s hardline stance in recent years has increasingly undermined israel ’s ’s ’s ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine deal with israel is impossible .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first-ever female fighter pilot . savchenko has been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months , to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than she is to be imprisoned . to be sure , one hopes that the new agreement will last , at long last , bring some peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as the automatic eviction of russia from the now-swift financial transfer system should it renege on any aspect of the agreement . simply put , the kremlin ’s belief in “ goodwill ” that would have been reckless .
through a survey of inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized donation of data-to the centre for international development at harvard university , the us is now beginning to shed some light on this mystery . more populous countries have more business travel in both directions , but the gdp is less than proportionally with their population : a country with 100 % more of the population than another has only about 70 % more business travel . in ongoing work with dan bahar , michele coscia and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some intriguing , stylized facts . why , for example , waste precious work time in the air , security checks , and waiting for our baggage ? before anyone begins to slashing travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we must move people rather than information .
too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring that he will soon go away has done little damage . but it has not receded , and doing so has done plenty of harm . in confronting trump , there can be no discount at all . the prize in freedom , americans likes to point out , is eternal vigilance . the american people can not afford to make the same mistake again .
the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental-impact evaluations . in fact , the peruvian government now has a profound problem . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as its compliant climate champion ” – an image that some cabinet members decry – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environmental and economic-growth prospects . and , while the us government recognizes the imperative of growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . explicitly , humala ’s president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a class of “ realistic ” practices to reduce red tape perceived to constrain investment in extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should become less dependent .
fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests puts at risk what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil-society entities , the relative newness of their hard-won freedoms , and an extreme understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or a colonial administration , means to individual liberty . ( still less do note the role that female empowerment and feminism has played in development . ) the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s administration , which has been herself imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , is that brazilians are aware of just what is at stake . when pundits weigh in emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and educational booms .
put bluntly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do a lot . nato is no longer merely a military alliance , but one that it can . the eu is now a military-political alliance that sets the stage for democratic standards for new members and aspirants . no romanian government can neglect these standards , either . so , in doing so , how can nato help this ?
a revolutionary delusion has imploded , leaving behind only the oppressive rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mafia – that has bought the military ’s allegiance with massive cash bonuses and a lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking process . on the issue of the number of turkish political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of chile , cuba , and turkey . one might expect american president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition ’s leader , juan guaidó , as an interim head of state , after guaidó , with widespread backing among venezuelans , invoked constitutional provision designed to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . the mob ’s opponents are restive , often brutally so far .
the situation may not yet be dire , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are undertaking structural reform . if it loosens tight monetary policy further – by , say , cutting banks ’ reserve-currency requirement ratio – momentum toward restructuring could fade ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will quickly flow into the real sector . indeed , the trade-weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial corporates remains near 7 % , with economic growth edged down from the 7.4 % year on year in the final three months to just 7.3 % in the current quarter . yet , so far , efforts to rein in funding costs have had only a limited impact . the pboc now faces a dilemma .
instead of closing the door , such a redefinition of the statehood bid under the un would provide the palestinian leadership with much-needed symbolic success , including a framework from which to launch the negotiation process – longstanding palestinian demand . while such an approach would almost certainly drop a short of a maximalist palestinian claim , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . drafted with the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state to the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . at the same time , it would address indirectly the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy .
the european parliament has drafted a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in fields like robotics . whether that is the best solution is now the topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some sort of compromise will have to be introduced in practice . moreover , robotics and ai will raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly their very respect for privacy and safety . given that ongoing changes in the means of manufacturing have already kick-started this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have hinted that robots are taxing robots to pay for human services . fortunately , there is a wider political consensus about this topic than about taxation .
therefore , goes the refrain , in argentina , in the famous argentine hall . ” but , actually , in argentina , everything stays the same , or get worse . heraclitus ’s warning against christ in the same sea twice dies in our former economic ministers , insisting on bathing in contaminated waters regularly . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising fears over what would happen if argentina pays back its foreign debt and then default on its debts under severe pressure from the international monetary fund and america . “ all of this is worrying . ”
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are critical to solving the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . while the un still has plenty of strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not fractured ; rather , it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global challenges elsewhere . we ’ve seen this on topics ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , un asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . and yet seldom have our existing institutions , including , most notably , the united nations , frailer .
there are three keys to this phenomenon : mass action on the basis of a loose global plan . the internet allowed for rapid spread of organizational plans at an all-time low of cost to the organizers . mass action depended on local organizations promoting the initiative , which was based on relaxed worldwide plans . the decision to launch february 15 as the day of mass protest was clearly staged at the european social forum in florence in november last year . in ninety days , these organizers switched more than five million protestors around the world .
now , eight of all prisoners are entering their second month of starvation tactics . how better to memorialize that decision than it is to build in prison ? indeed , they are purged to leave ; it is merely obama ’s failure to follow through on his vow , as well as america ’s congress ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s failure to legislate – thereby keeping them there . the new facility – for which the money comes to be given – will house 106 prisoners ( the accurate number is uncertain ) , who have neither tried nor charged . according to america ’s southern command spokespersons supervising gitmo , the hunger strikers get disillusioned , for they believed obama ’s pledge to close gitmo .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that bolster disputes and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that benefits from increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly by chinese firms . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or less outcompete technology flows , which are increasingly subject to safety reviews . it is important to note that these choices are not just those of china ; the world is also having some decisions that should be made . for starters , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that bolster disputes and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . according to our simulations , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on how technology flows unleash innovation and raise productivity .
using iceland as our measurement stick , the costs to greece of not exiting the eurozone are equivalent to about 75 % of one year ’s gdp – and counting . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in march 2007 , technical considerations move exiting the eurozone hard , expensive , and dangerous . but that , too , is just one side of the ledger . it is hard to be believed that , had greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even one-quarter of that . whereas greece remains mired in a depression , iceland , which is not in the eurozone , had basically recovered .
there is only one way to account for america ’s administration ’s decision to give such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his first presidential election campaign to disengage from iraq during his first term . in this , obama follows the example set by president george w. bush , who will allow the american electoral agenda , rather than the american people , to mention iraq in terms of the national interest , dictating us policy on iraq . last march , as rumors circulated losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be under threat if he lost , noting his responsibility for maintaining order . when he did lose , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but as part of his capacity as commander-in-chief . now that maliki , despite his incumbency , has been unable to secure for a second term , just seven months after his elections attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class .
in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself ever rallied to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . the signal , in this case his promise to strike a balance between the books , generates reality . people start acting as though this books have been balanced , ignored . when one believes the narrative , one acts in the way that it turns out to be genuine . in its emphasis on the mark , economics enters a “ postmodernist ” territory .
in response to its dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will end up with a sustainable , domestic effort to eradicate malaria from the country . this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity on this front . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains .
even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of a large shia-dominated , militant organization . if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intent on treating them as second-class citizens , they would have little stake in the success of maliki ’s government , and could again begin to pursue their own political interests by other means , provoking yet another onslaught of sectarian violence . alternatively , the country ’s various interest groups might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , pivot to outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . worse still , a factional conflict would undermine further the development of a post-saddam iraq identity . there are good reasons for avoiding lebanon ’s example in this respect .
but this does mean having limited hope for resolving the seemingly chronic us trade deficit , and the related erosion of home-hiring traceable to such imbalances – as long as america does not now begin to save again . america had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from the saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” to be sure , this conspiracy is about to thicken . trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . that ’s not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook on unfair practices .
throughout the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 4 is viewed as a bad day , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel beat the armies of three arab countries , conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and others are now busy advocating a same old totalitarian mindset . arab intellectuals , as well as , indeed the broader arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a columnist for jordanian newspapers ’ i. their tactic has been to block a clear referendum in iraq by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to backing america ’s occupation of iraq . their tactic has been to obstruct a clear revision of the iraqi catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to backing america ’s occupation of iraq .
given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest exporter of capital signifies a gross misallocation of resources . and , while recovery in the advanced economies has boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with a slower household-consumption growth rate than it was in 2012 , has caused investment growth , albeit to continue rapidly , to decline to its lowest rate in the last 11 years . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) might come from its outsize investment-income deficit . but it is a problem that china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . broadly speaking , a country can run a current-account deficit or a surplus perpetually for decades .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability organization of the global footprint network , humanity will usher in the earth ’s resource budget for as long as next year . this “ earth will overshoot day ” has moved ahead by an astounding two months in the last 20 years , and in 2019 , it will arrive earlier than ever before . while humanity ’s increasing ecological impact manifests itself in myriad ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . the carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the american could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . and popular discontent with official corruption and political oppression was amply shown in every region of china in 1989 . indeed , the communist government managed to remain in power after tiananmen square not only through brute force . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among the highly educated middle class , was bought with promises of more wealth .
moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households either lived in substandard housing or struggling financially , owing to a cost of housing ; that number is projected to soar to 440 million by 2025 . but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households either lived in substandard housing or struggling financially , owing to the cost of housing ; that number is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 . the world ’s 20 largest cities , with 75 % of that in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . even in an advanced-economy economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates .
berkeley – one does n’t need a particularly good hearing to decipher those dog whistles over this year ’s midterm election campaign in the united states . it is frightening to those in foreign countries who can sign only that voters in the world ’s sole superpower have become dangerously out of touch . and it is frightening to americans , who , until recently , believed – or perhaps hoping – that they live in a civilizational republic based on the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt . listen briefly , and you understand that mexicans and the chinese are on the job of wall street to forge lousy trade deals that are robbing american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims are seeking to blow up everyone up . all of this anxiety mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare .
professor nicola rossi , an economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the desire that we give “ less to the fathers and more to the good sons . ” put in those terms , the problem has always been solved by giving more weight to those who have the most political strength . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the matter for the pensions and the topic of fiscal reform , demonstrates this entirely . but if the unions are powerful or seniors in majorities ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all the labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . here is the remarkable budget delusion and the finance ministry in italy .
oslo – education is the human right thing to do . around the world , an estimated 59 million fewer children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . over 120 million children do not complete primary schooling ; they also live in cities . beyond these figures there are children and youth being denied not only a right , but an opportunity : a fair chance of getting a decent job , running away from poverty , supporting their families , and advancing their communities . and , like other human rights , it can not take for granted .
small farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s ’s biggest agricultural investors . moreover , fewer than 5 % of agricultural land is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely in use . indeed , on average , they apply fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to about 140 kilograms in india . and india ’s debt/gdp growth is more than twice that of poverty reduction as a result of growth in other sectors . but africa ’s farmers are facing significant obstacles to achieving their full potential .
evidently , the majority of eu countries are not . the question is whether the decision-makers are prepared to use them . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? are the risks so large that they justify the suffering that could have been avoided ? gm foods have now been parts of us markets in excess of 12 years .
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have so much insatiable appetite for debt . but policy-induced distortions also play an outsize role . of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some form in loans instruments such as bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . the derivatives market certainly helps spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the fundamental point stands . imperfect information and difficulty in monitoring firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
still , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not move down this bilateral bri path with china , but rather to deepen its engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s own interests might not be aligned with those of spain . in fact , italian exports to china currently amount to roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) a year , while annual imports total roughly € 29 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) . whereas italy has received about € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have been investing € 10.5 billion in bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and signing on to bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . moreover , a china-eu partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given the blocked lending of its banks .
to be sure , many latin american leaders in recent decades have come to power on promises of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have brought some short-term benefits , most notably from the poor . but , so far , such measures have been marred by populism , and ultimately have done more harm than good . after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has worn thin . relying on commodity revenues to fund their own social-welfare programs , those leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals .
the members of congress have expressed the outright fear of the trump presidency with no guardrails . members of congress have expressed the outright fear of the trump presidency with no guardrails . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . mattis ’s kgb cronies made clear in televised interviews that what the most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he can no longer influence policy , but also that his remaining inside the cabinet accepted as trump ’s affirmation , a position that he would no longer be shouldered . his scathing resignation letter made it clear not only to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of us behavior : trump ’s erratic confusion of us allies and adversaries ; his willingness to abandon friends , such as the kurds ; and his trashing alliances , like nato . even thurty , the senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a declaration in cannes that he was “ distressed ” by mattis ’s departure ( a major sticking point , many believe mcconnell ’s private fear of trump ’s influence on the republican party ) .
visas are being denounced to anyone active in human-rights name with the unintended side effect of hurting international business in china . yet china ’s priorities are not just sustaining economic growth . rather , they are intended to spur growth while protecting its power with a monopoly . the regime is set to show the world that , once a global power , china , once again can stage a spectacular course of performance and that its voice heats up . empowering its own security system , the government has strengthened its safeguards and brought in place a ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras .
it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning one . it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader , or an internationalist right-leaning one . in a time of continuous economic disruptions , this will be all the more fundamental . in short , only one of those that seems to have been the tenable option . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong , internationalist bent .
as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to cigarette packs , ” this would imply a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . but there is an alternative that could help appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss of a outright ban on smoking : cigarette packs . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a nicotine solution to produce inhalable vapor , released none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoke , thus making them an ideal nicotine-delivery system to smokers seeking – or being forced – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and alleviate the revenue loss from a outright ban on smoking : cigarette packs . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , ” this would mean a market of around 3.5 million e-cigarette users .
the reason the un climate conferences continue to fail is straightforward : their agendas , centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , university-applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference , is easy . but countries do respect adherence automatically to those targets as a sacrifice : in its efforts to cut emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by $ z trillion . even when a government does attempt to tighten its commitments with , say , imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might not get the desired results . because there are no actual sanctions or penalty for noncompliance , when push comes to denmark , governments can simply change the way .
today , 80 % of global trade comprises transnational supply chains . while china provides just 4 % of the value-added , it supplies its core components to apple at a low price . apple can not build an iphone out of scratch in the us so that it would have to seek alternative suppliers , raising its production costs substantially . declining trade costs have enabled firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with manufactured goods invented and value added in multiple countries along the chain . this would provide chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from major players .
financial economists view such luck-based compensation as an expression of governance problems . third , a higher ceo ’s ( paying slice ) is associated with weaker accountability to poor performance . in publicly owned firms , the probability of a ceo ’s rate of turnover , after an ill-performing incumbent ( controlling for a ceo ’s ’s ’s length ) is lower . lower sensitivity about turnover to performance reflects a less willingness on the part of his directors to the discipline the ceo . finally , firms with an even higher ceo pay slice are more likely to give their ceo option grants to turn out to be opportunistically timed .
for a living society can not be restructured from above . any weighty occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent . if europe becomes one , if the european union takes over some of the new postcommunist democracies – which are in everyone 's interest – several vital tasks must be carried out within the new democracies as well as within the framework of the european and atlantic community . to begin , europe must foster a community of nation states by recovering from civil society . there is only one europe , despite its diversity .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement does not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will serve only prolong the conflict . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict will end . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policy toward russia . this approach offers the best chance of bringing an end to the current confrontation and making it compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . to be sure , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back to the confidence that it broke it down , demonstrating its commitment to adhere to the treaties and to the international norms of the behavior that it has agreed .
today , greece ’s european creditors appear prepared to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist that greece collect some crumbs from the country ’s then-pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit ; the world will never again trust europe ’s longevity . at a minimum , the eu ’s weaker members will face mounting market pressures . nine times in ten , nothing genuinely serious is likely to happen – just some distress towards individual countries or groups . but we run the risk of the tenth time … ”
to many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . most of those at the top reaches not only the civil service and the judiciary , but also the politics , business , and academia that use the glorious grandes écoles . thus , a meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first sight . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status , or to a gerontocracy in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts are its titles and properties . but , on closer inspection , things are not as straightforward .
as a result , america is squandering some of its most precious assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning for dysfunctional pursuits . most societies recognize their own moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their own potential . but in america , more is spent on educating the wealthy , rather than on learning from the poor . at america ’s mostly elite universities , for example , only about 9 % of students in the us attend half of the population , while 74 % come from the top quarter . at the same time , some countries are even imposing a strong constitutional mandate for the equality of educational opportunity .
but those reserves had been concentrated in the south , and thus disappeared when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and now , the political stability has been gone , as well . even as sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability remains far from assured . for decades , le pen has used her oil revenues to purchase relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . the au now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless it transfer power to civilian authority .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is daunting , especially given constraints on key resources such as water and agriculture . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – apportioned greenhouses that used an artificial light to grow crops – can provide a sizable amount of savings that could then pass through consumers . but questions about such farm ’ fundamental economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the global food supply are both a form of genetic engineering and an industrial-scale processing with additives and chemicals . now , a third solution is underway : vertical farming .
pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . still , we are needed to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . what that means is that pensions and taxation institutions must be designed to take a better view of the changing circumstances that face different generations , rather than making the kind of fixed promises -- which , most likely , ca n’t be kept , anyway , -- of some payouts in the future . what it does mean is that the problem is political . our pension systems and our national budgets must be built on a `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreading systematically throughout generations .
but any tax gains from lower taxes are more than offset by losses to the private sector , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less in turn , lowering economic growth – and thus allowing government revenues to fall further . this can only worsen europe ’s vulnerabilities and soften its already meager growth prospects . indeed , many of the steps over the past few years have been taken to strengthen regulation of the banking system . but what is proposed now will make investment lending even less attractive and increase incentives to focus on sovereign risk in the banking sector . lower financing costs for government debt appear to be a net gain to society , because the government then front-load debt-service saves and can keep taxation lower .
the plo has been successful in its efforts to win european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . instead , it is the americans who have their own ideas about how to achieve the breakthrough , particularly with the israel that the obama administration believes is now a major hurdle . to effect change in israel , americans are launching various trial balloons . when palestinians have asked mitchell for their assurances that america would support such a statehood declaration if talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations pointless . the american people have the only obstacle that remains to palestinian leaders .
but few laws are in place to address the use of cells , tissues , and genes . the most well familiar case with the body as assets has been that of john moore , the patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed from the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician had patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , established contracts , and sold his rights to the swiss pharmaceuticals to make drugs available from the “ mo ” cell line . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the commercial human tissue ’s commercial potential seamlessly catches the entrepreneurial imagination . the commercial calculus behind this piece of business sometimes provoked riots until anatomy laws allowed the bodies of executed murderers and disclaimed those dead to be used , thereby reassuring the middle and upper class individuals that their bodies are not engaged .
in berlin , as elsewhere in big german cities , taxi drivers sport the flags of their drivers ’ home countries , from angola to saudi arabia . fans don not only their nations ’ ’ ’ flags , but also a fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors . in reality , by contrast , flags of many peoples fly side by side within germany . yet germans , undaunted by it all , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world . the black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns the entire country as never before , yet almost nowhere are there nationalist overtones .
fortunately , as in neighboring rwanda , this is entirely possible . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to rise . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide in syria , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in the space of only 100 days . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , failed states , and a traumatized population with little belief in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage was less than 30 % . in order to prevent the ebola outbreak from accelerating further , relevant actors – from health workers to government agents – must re-engage with affected communities and win their trust .
in fact , corruption is decried across cultures , and throughout history , too . it has existed as long as government has ; but , like other crime , it has grown ever more sophisticated over the past several decades , with its devastating effect on the wellbeing and dignity of its myriad innocent citizens . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or royalty royalties for natural resources are being stolen at source , or the private sector is monopolized by a narrow web of corporate cronies , populations are incapable of realizing their potential . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with business representatives and civil-society representatives , will have a critical opportunity to do so on this recognition . for starters , corruption cripples development prospects .
the protests began when the government sought to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , yingluck ’s brother , and the ptp ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s founder , overthrown by the military in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to backtrack on an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , the street protests have intensified , fueled entirely new grievances . the yingluck government refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to transform the senate from a half-appointed majority to a fully elected chamber .
now , eu member states are more divided now than ever , even on the most fundamental questions related to the european project . new presidents from the european commission , france , the netherlands , and italy will be appointed by the european central bank and by the ecb , together with a new high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy . if the nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest grouping in the european parliament , such appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past . moreover , east is increasingly being summarized against the west with the north . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been superseded by resurgent nationalism .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in their national health systems . but , while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may appear like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , that has not proved true . the recent ebola outbreak in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for a stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care system in the developing world . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i have seen more than a handful of health facilities that communities can do without . but when countries rush to build up more clinics , the resulting facilities are typically hastily constructed and lacking in facilities , supplies , and personnel needed to deliver vital health services effectively .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would still be very different . wilson , for example , would most likely concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . but wilson ’s ’s solution would most likely focus on developing and implementing improved regulations , through an inclusive multilateral process . it is truly problematic that america ’s banks and firms could export the capital , technology , and job one that they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs . likewise , he would presumably advocate a pro-growth fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest firms and households financing , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health care .
but in a move that i believe was key to our subsequent growth path , i announced the “ classical ” englishnization , ” a plan to make english our corporate language in less than two years . the goal was to lay the groundwork for the global expansion in an industry that is competing aggressively for internet-savvy talent . unsurprisingly , some on my team have been apprehended ; others , especially those outside the firm , thought that i was a bit foolish . but , just seven years later , as i suspect , corporate japan ’s titans are flocking to the us in how to build a global brand headquartered in japan ’s capital . when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of the us labor force was eligible in english .
but this would merely weaken the banks ’ loan portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to boost them . the ecb ’s decision to give the bank of england unlimited liquidity does not resolve governments ’ debt problems ; nor is that its purpose . tax increases and public-spending cuts are still necessary ; there is no avoiding this reality . but that , at least , precludes a sovereign-debt problem from creating banking problems , which in turn worsens the ( essentially worsening ) debt problem with no end in sight . europe ’s other vicious spiral is driving the next vicious spiral from fiscal consolidation to slow growth , and back toward fiscal consolidation .
indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , trained technicians , and medical professionals . this sterility and inertia make europe less – and less interesting – for americans . add to that recipe , too . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european foreign policy do contribute to the development of 60 % of new world drug development in the americas , compared with up to 40 % only ten years ago . so the american view turns elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , a year in and year , to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people perished across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on traditional warnings systems have suffered no well-known casualties . but , with bolsonaro ’s promises undermining , indigenous societies have been pitted outright against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunts , witch hunts , and other interlopers . these tribes could be isolated , but their demise would have severe consequences . with their reverence for – and an understanding of – natures , such groups serve as the world ’s ecological sentinels , insulation of 80 % of global diversity , and play a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die many more rapidly if we suddenly become involved , bringing to our modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies .
of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was overwhelmingly usurped by the soviet union , find it especially sensitive to external efforts to shape their own decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identity than any other eu country . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties that lead to globalization . that is precisely why it is so difficult to fathom their position today . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few of the eu ’s entry into poland and hungary into euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand how their peoples ’ eagerness and hope at that momentous time .
it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the prosperity of all . today , many of the benefits of humanity depend on the sea from the pacific to the indian oceans remaining fully opened . but , exactly , what , exactly , should be done ? if we distill the spirit that we have infused into international law over the ages , and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at the seas becomes a matter of common purpose . no particular country or group has created international maritime law , as it now exists .
sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its potential purpose can help predict and curb its use . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than the groups that recruit through other means . when perpetrators of sexual violence are convened in high-profile settings , such as the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ claim . moreover , those living in the shadow of armed groups with their genocidal goals have the increased risk of being targeted through sexualized violence – such as forced pregnancies . to be sure , effective solutions must consider the local context .
a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect the history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to win acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect cultural heritage ; it obliges the union to defend , retain , and develop , european cultural and linguistic wealth . but europe can succeed at this task only as long as its various constituent cultures are not seal themselves from one another . some of the values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey . because an enlarged union becomes a reality on just two months , the eu is imperative to develop concepts of cultural understanding that contribute to the progress of its new members .
if successfully implemented , this agenda will likely reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned major imbalances in recent years . in fact , china has been responsible for the saving side , whereas america disproportionately accounts for the over-consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s lenders . a doubling of real median household income by 2020 , the target set at the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november , will likely release $ 64 trillion of renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s enormous internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . that model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than relying simply on foreign investment . to be sure , the global saving and consumption patterns have undergone profound change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china seeking to restore their internal equilibrium .
i do not like quotas either ; they run a counter to my belief in a meritocracy report . but when one considers the hurdles to achieve the meritocratic ideal , it looks as if a fairer world must be mandated temporarily . i understand re-ding ’s reticence – and her own frustrations – as well as her own frustrations . after all , four decades of proof now have shown corporations in europe just as america reaps meritocratic hiring and promotion from women to top positions , no matter how much “ soft ” pressure is placed on them . when women backfires to the summit of corporate power – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently done in facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception to the rule .
new delhi – in may 2009 , when i competed in india ’s last parliamentary election , i was one of a rarity . in india , i was not a professional politician ; in india , it was only a young people . on the contrary , all of my constituency candidates in my own constituency – indeed , most volumes of several contenders throughout the country – devoted their entire life to politics , many since their student days . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seats or a political fiefdom to inherit ; and i embarked on a race without a political “ godfather . ” in india , by contrast , all other candidates in my constituency – indeed , most of the contenders throughout the country – devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still possesses a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . but , ultimately , the experiment has failed , at best . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state now represents a “ 50-50 society ” ” ” : half of the cosmopolitan , half of its communitarian . the fdp abandoned the talks out of the frustrations that , as its leader , christian lindner put it , “ four discussion partners lack a common vision for modernizing the country or a common basis of trust . ” in these countries , the eu government at any given time represents the whichever side won the most recent round in an ongoing culture war .
for starters , all countries need to define the crime of online child trafficking and incorporate it into their national penal codes , along with harsh punishments for violators . throughout the recruitment of people , advertising and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking should also be criminalized . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers to that regard . raising awareness about the matter is also critical in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and an inadequate age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . parents must build trust bridges to such an extent that their children feel able to open up about their problems .
specialized attention must be devoted to rural regions and those with specific needs , often-overlooked adolescent males . moreover , communities need increased access to hiv infection and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish the youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . such platform should be open after school and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . such spaces should be open after school and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . such reforms are critical to improving guyana ’s life prospects .
this suggests that stronger economic – and thus more jobs – would reduce the pool of workers engaged in independent work . but , regardless of whether there are macroeconomic conditions , there are independent work probably accounts for a rising proportion of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the working-age population would prefer to earn income , albeit primary or secondary , out of independent work . in fact , many are low-income workers , who otherwise would have to become unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus more employment – growth would have reduced the workforce engaged in independent work .
one motto was “ no bread without freedom . ” crucially , the protesters failed to demand that free elections be brought into view . in this they were realists , but they held demands a measure of civic control over the institutions , through both the political as well as the economic sphere . demanding to abolish censorship was one of the first political slogans of polish march 68 . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize were followed .
new haven – in what might well be the ultimate act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control over the economies they have been given to managing . embracing negative-grade interest rates – initially launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing , and now negative real interest rates , one futile attempt begetting yet another . previously , the emphasis shifted to boost aggregate demand – primarily through lower borrowing costs , but also by triggering the wealth effects of appreciating financial assets . just as the former two gambits have failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , the shift to negative rates will merely compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis .
indeed , the price of permits fell less than three euros per ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . this , in turn , has encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting coal – the world ’s worst energy source , from its standpoint of global warming . that would n’t have happened if the price mechanism is still underpinning climate-change policy . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proven to be ruinously expensive .
china might want out of the middle east oil , but those in the middle east with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands might worry more about gucci handbags than in china ’s massachusetts manufactured goods . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral surpluses with other countries . that way , while china may be able to run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us with the american side , such bilateral balance indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . yet the challenge facing the imf remains formidable . to be sure , it will be important for the fund to target global imbalances rather than a bilateral imbalance .
new york – in 2018 , the united states was the world ’s seventh-most stressed population , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . stresses , alarming , and anger all of them hit a peak of one year for ten-year us highs in 2018 . asked about their feelings about the last day , america ’s majority ( 55 % ) majority ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they had experienced stress over a number of days , nearly half ( 45 % ) said that they felt worried a lot , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they smacked out of anger a lot . those stress measures are in keeping with another notable finding : the americans ’ self-reported happiness also fell in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on the scale from the zero ( worst life ) to around the top ten ( the world ’s best life ) , the americans in 2018 replied at 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 and 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
a letter to this end , banks should make their values and culture integral to hiring , firing , and promotion decisions . their employees must understand an instinctively what can be done , and what should never be done . a proscribed code – which emphasizes the commercial benefits of an ethical business conduct and the adverse consequences of falling short – is part of that effort and may help preserve and reinforce a culture ; but a code alone is not enough . a relentless reminders and repetition are essential . they must internalize a culture that is rigid adherence to high levels of behavioral ethical norms .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained voting rights , and today the majority of women in the developed world are enfranchised . the law allowed women to vote since may 1956 , nearly a decade after britain ’s independence . but , in many developing countries , the opposition , the british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists . this certainly is true in pakistan , where a general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first sight , pakistan looks progressive .
the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just when the euro crisis was aggravated and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually increased . it should have been obvious that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models guided by both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were badly wrong . they have continued to use the old , discredited models , perhaps moderately modified . none foresaw the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his recent wife , were as incompetent at governing as kim , but after the turmoil of the cultural revolution , antagonism to them in the military and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , along with the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , made china ’s citizens fortunate . for his part , because he had no son succeeded him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to get the job done . but mao ’s death did , at least , end the age of caesarism in china .
in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight . but to revive civil society , the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participated in public life are a complicated task , because the very peoples of egypt and tunisia will soon find out . we in ukraine have learned that truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era . while communism could , every now and then , coexist with private property and , at times , the private enterprise , it could never coexist with a civic society . indeed , the most fateful assaults to accompany any dictatorship is an assault on civil society .
then , imagine america ’s intelligence agencies reaffirmed that an act of aggression was actually on their way to complete , despite putin ’s own denials . finally , imagine how trump might respond . would he call putin to ask , at long last , what was happening ? and would putin make another , unbelievable offer , one that could help us investigators get to the bottom of things ? even more to the point : would trump have moved quickly to invoke the tenets of his collective defense , under article 5 of the nato treaty ?
but these outside risks are not making the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . the baseline scenario for the americas is still robust growth . europe ’s gdp growth could be above trend , just as it continues its long sluggish recovery from the peak of the us debt crisis at the beginning of this decade . and china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years . so 2019 could well turn the outlook for solid global growth .
eugene scalia was arguing , the son of the us supreme court justice antonin scalia resulted in the case against the sec , a case won in america ’s court of appeals , dc ’s circuit circuit , on technicality , the sec ’s inability to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . this small victory turned to a major defeat for shareholders , when the sec , rather than performing such analysis and reproposing the rule again , chose to stall . at a conference last december , i asked sec chair mary chapter when her agency committed to reintroduce a rule . but she admitted that the sec had many other items on its agenda , and had placed the issue on the back burner , in a courteous way to say that the sec , like heroic students in tiananmen square , had given up under irresistible pressure . i even offered to do the kind of cost-benefit analysis made for free .
indeed , the fed ’s loose monetary policy has been inadequate to stave off an american recession , however modest , that many now question whether it qualifies as a true animal . but these are not normal times , either . and , in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . in its brief , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic overreacted to the financial crisis , but did not over-react . the european central bank ’s response has been an analogous assessment of the fed ’s , but probably less forcefully , with monetary policy easier than the headline rate of inflation would suggest is appropriate .
days later , the eck ’s head publicly admitted that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results ” immediately , despite unequivocal evidence of a vote rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know whom he was really winning . at the same time , eu observers declared that the elections tally has failed to satisfy basic international norms . when the opposition tried to question these inconsistencies , eck abruptly proclaimed kibaki the winner . days later , the eck ’s head publicly admitted that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results ” immediately , despite there being unequivocal evidence of a vote rigging .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , especially in germany . but it is difficult for monetary policymakers to respond by imposing trade barriers . moreover , a host of problem premiums is making such indicators difficult to interpret . unsurprisingly , therefore , surveys by households and firms on inflationary expectations forecast a return to inflation more precisely . given that market-based measures are now at odds with most other key economic figures , little weights should be tied to them .
but this presupposes that owning such data does indeed imply a competitive advantage , and a closed operating model is financially sustainable . in fact , as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rate is insufficient to sustain large inward r & d organizations , thereby making the industry ’s current operating model financially unviable . at first sight , it looks counter-intuitive that companies would want to share data , and potentially even give away the competitive advantages that it does . the drugs that make it to the market have to fund the costs of those that have failed to make it to the market . but pharmaceutical companies continue to withhold assumptions about the pre-collaboration boundaries needed to be challenged .
attempting to force iran to back down with its steadily mounting sanctions has produced no results . despite a tightening economic noose – america has imposed sanctions on all firms doing business with iran , as well as on the european union ’s plans for imposing sanctions on iranian oil exports by late january – many of its nuclear experts now estimate that iran remains very close to enriching enough weapons-grade uranium to construct a bomb . while the iranian government could most likely be deterred from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well enter a regional arms race , a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . already , the market has pursued the previous week ’s measure of tensions , driving the price of some of the country ’s oil contracts to its highest level in eight months . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s oil price is an appalling scenario .
the levy is the easy way to spread the political and financial costs of the crisis from some to all eu members . the post-crisis harmonization of harmonization in this area means that it will now be more expensive everywhere within the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected shifts in interest rates . if implemented , bank capital will be scarcer , credit-flow flows slower , and bank fees higher in countries with fairly stable parts of the financial sector , simply because others have been spending a fortune to boost their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules throughout the eu . the same is true of the trading scheme of derivatives . the levy is the easy way to spread the political and financial costs of the crisis from some to all eu members .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted financing from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , establishes partnership with employers to offer digital-based modules that connect job-seekers to particular jobs , primarily an entry-level position that does not require a college degrees . employers are foot-dragging , with the expectation that learnup will help them to recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once candidates have completed the training , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already includes a few big companies . at & t offers scholarships through his partner non-profit institutions and provides paid internships for as many as 100 out graduates . the california community college system already works with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill their local jobs .
porto -- the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country poses an immense danger not only to egypt ’s own democratic transition , but also to the democratic hopes of the entire arab world as much as it is to the democratic hopes of the entire arab world . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a moderate electoral majority would not suffice , particularly nowadays . the fact that the coup was undertaken with massive popular support provides an indication of the tremendous difficulty that the muslim brotherhood faced during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crisis in the face of tremendous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own errors , particularly the failures of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which contributed to its election .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s court trial accused the complicity of the rwandan genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed from april to july 1994 , began in paris . sadly , mass killings in africa continue . and french military interventions in the central african republic have failed to put an end to the severe inter-communal violence there . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue in africa , perhaps on a greater scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . in south sudan , africa ’s ’s newest state , massacres of civilians are still taking place , especially around libor territory .
one shudders to think what will happen unless europe withdraws from its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to america in world economic policy . fortunately , europeans probably will not wait until this long ago to start moving ahead once again . moreover , with trump ’s growing concern about america ’s us fiscal policy increasing , europe has enormous opportunity for the us to play a substantially greater role as the reserve currency . europeans may not mind that very right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than the us ) , but they might not be as pleased if george bush comes along .
the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , as well as deregulation and lower corporate-tax rates . that implies that it was inappropriate to focus on boosting growth , to the extent that the deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , to this day . a key component of abe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth strategy is expanding labor force – a major challenge , given the rapid aging of japanese society . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into the japanese economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacillated and the collapse of the palestinian authority before our eyes . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ on the margin , ” but a rapid pace of technological change is driving us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs . many of us believe that such an impossible wager could be fulfilled only through providential man , no hope , and dangers , that this entails . not all the sheer periods create their bonapartes , and this will probably be a good thing , for exceptional leaders may give the illusion that all the problems have solutions , which are far from the truth . likewise , the rise of some sort will arrive easily for some time .
uk leadership in these areas has been highly appreciated , and would sorely missed should the british decide to leave . so , while the cameron administration ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eu can not – and will not – emerge from its outside , according to british interests . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing crucial eu policies , including supply-side measures , overseas development assistance , trade , and climate change . indeed , at last year ’s conference on a “ fiscal compact ” should already have shown the difficulty of exercising a so-called “ national veto . ” the uk does not have to block other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other eu member states ’ political will to move ahead .
in july of that year , robert a. ford , america ’s chief ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni city of hama to ordering the massacre 30 years earlier . according to the state department at that time , the point about his visit was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and express themselves . ” but they will fault america for not reproducing the wider war . it is already clear that the obama administration has not recognized what it has amounted to bargaining for when , with no thought to what comes next , it called , in 2011 for assad ’s removal . did the administration really not foresee that assad , like his father before he did respond to a popular anti-violence uprising ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is coming under pressure to float its currency . all economics students are learning the mundell-fleming model , according to which the economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , loose capital movements , and an independent monetary policy at the same time . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow abroad and convert them into a domestic currency for investments in domestic assets . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank , in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling off domestic currency , particularly america ’s dollar reserves , until interest rates and money-supply returned to their initial levels . but striking the right equilibrium between real exchange-rate misallocations and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy .
america ’s stagnant incomes for most of america ’s workforce undercut economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side ( via the adverse effects on education opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) . america ’s presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit for profits that us firms distribute to hire laborers in less than two years . by providing temporary tax relief , the us scheme would help companies offset the administrative costs of driving an profit-sharing program . tax credit could also foster changes in corporate culture , by encouraging board-level debates not only of the benefits of profit-sharing , but also of sharing information and the decision-making authority with employees . in order to cap costs and prevent abuses , the profits totaling more than 10 % at the top of a worker would be discounted ; the overall amount offered to individual firms would be blurred ; and safeguards against wage replacement , raises , and generate other benefits .
most russians do not see a connection between prosecuting key figures and their credibility . on the contrary , they seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment finally appears to have worked out corruption . but it is this message to russia ’s shaken elites that is more relevant . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even when , like abyzov and ishayev , they retire from public office and no influence on their own . moreover , in many respects , the quality of selective repression has become entrenched .
it has also marshaled the successor to the commission , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . it also endorsed the commission ’s successor , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge and policy in toronto , south korea , the group issued its own report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . the new report highlights several topics , such as trust and insecurity , that were only briefly addressed by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , such as inequality and sustainability , more profoundly . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in a range of areas . improvement on indicators would expose the highly negative – and perhaps the long-drawnegative – effects of the deep post-2008 tipping from productivity and well-being , in which case policymakers might have been less enamored of austerity that lowered fiscal deficits but decreased national wealth , properly measured even more .
and it is precisely why , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , we remain frozen today . it is for these reasons that we seemed to have made it so far for past generations , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our system of regulating financial regulation . seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes had thought about financial markets ’ reform and regulation from an initial three purposes , and found himself “ moving toward ... mak [ who ] buy up investment enduring and indissoluble , just as marriage … ” ” seventy-three years ago . but he promptly drew back : the fact that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ( though this can not be true for all investors collectively ) calms his nerves , making him still far more willing to run the risk … . ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he ’s play of professional investments ” is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is entirely exempted from gambling instinct ; the other people who have it must pay to the appropriate toll … ”
perhaps the most outrageous example is american $ 0.54 per gallon of imported tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no oil tariff and just a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american firms ( a huge proportion that passes to one firm ) get on ethanol . as a result , us foreign producers can not compete unless their costs are $ 1,05 per gallon below those held by american producers . yet , despite this enormous advantage , some foreign firms may still be able to make in the american market . enormous subsidies have meant that america became the world ’s largest ethanol producer .
the results have not only shaped a conflict between us federal legislation and state legislation ; they also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that related to same-sex marriage . just as importantly , nonetheless , us president barack obama ’s ’s response to trump on colorado and washington votes – the two us states that he won readily in his re-election bid – has taken place . on other issues , principally immigration , obama rejects the claims of the states regarding the rights of the us and insists at a federal authority . the legal and political challenges implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains an illicit substance under us federal laws and the international conventions that america has embraced . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate a small majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement .
regional and religious tensions since houphouet ’s death , and were aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . regional and religious tensions since houphouet ’s death , together with the ussr and were aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined in ethnic discrimination . the result has been catastrophic , as the ethnic rivalries sharpened . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 culminated in a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . whatever else is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight left no doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and bear the brunt of making education in the european union is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be civil-right . these governments wish to establish an education system according to which the state alone decides which research fields are both necessary and socially . political trustworthiness determines who can teach and study what about the country and its past .
dubai – the era of globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , notes that interdependence , formerly the economics of economics , has now become an ominous threat as well . for all of its undeniable benefits , it has squandered governance and governance problems that expose the inequities of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions have faced a political backlash and a threat to catastrophe on many fronts . that has left people everywhere , rich and poor alike struggling to cope with problems , from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing in under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but unable to address effectively .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the notion of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , by contrast , china does need a new strategic doctrine , for the most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent win over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming character , but its failure to provide china with president mahinda rajapaska with both the military supplies and the diplomatic cover it needs to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither the wherewithal nor the will be willing to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tamil tigers . thus , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now shown its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally beyond its orbit . on sri lanka ’s ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has been complete .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first american finance minister , re-adjusted state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement the new american nation . but the mutualization of debt gave rise to vast moral hazard effects , encouraging the united states to borrow excessively . germany has the greatest exposure by far among the crisis-stricken countries of europe ’s crisis-stricken countries , and thus to help alleviate austerity more effectively than any other country . george soros has underestimate the risks that debt re-denomination would pose for the future of the eurozone . should the break-up of the euro and gipsic countries in default , germany alone would lose some € 545 billion , almost half of the aggregate mentioned since the bundesbank had implemented most of its net payments in the name of gipsic countries that mirrored its target balances .
beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat . in terms of global health alone , the year has come to present itself as one of persistent tragedy . hong kong , which looks back on 2016 , may not seem to have much to celebrate . hopes for the breathing syncytial virus have been dashed . at the same time , there has been the prevalence of antibiotic-resistant model or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” ” ” the continuing resurgence of yellow fever and the resurgence of polio in nigeria , which had previously been declared polio-free .
during the new deal era , us regulators comprised the functional equivalent of such a requirement in some charters for banks and thrifts . but these mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks moving quickly out of low-cost financial services , as well as higher-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch offices , which have grown steadily since the 2008 financial crisis and cut access to services in low - and middle-income communities . history , too , shows the us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem anytime soon by universal service requirements . when it comes to ensuring equity capital in banking , these precedents and current institutions highlight the way forward .
after all , the israeli government has not only allowed its supposedly un-authorized outposts to exist ; it has also provided them with water , electricity , the internet , and army protection . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american people ’s congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had gone “ accordingly ” when israel announced 700 new israeli housing units for israelis in the west bank . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as they were driving the massive israeli settlements on territory that they had been working to include in an independent state . that has almost been lost on all us leaders ’ support for the un . by december 2016 , obama was allowing the un security council to vote this trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to the two-state solution .
new haven : throughout europe and america , the men in the black tie and women in kyiv and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . once again , state coffers are tapped to support the support of these privileged retreats . perhaps , then , is the time to ask once again a basic question : should the state ladle out generous subsidies for such an elite ’s actions ? consider an element of incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholics high masses . does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ?
but foreign policy , as we have known this , is essentially a manifestation of a nation state or a superpower . so a key characteristic of eu foreign policy integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are letting themselves be in for themselves . so it is not surprising that there has been very little real progress in eu foreign policy integration . this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration have taken place where no-man ’s — land that lies between total national autonomy and the total loss of sovereignty in a federation . in the case of defense and warfare , " unpredictability incorporates the possibility of young men dying in action .
without incremental support from the international community , our vision will fail to be realized – notwithstanding strong political will and rigorous planning . what i hope will become clear at the oslo education summit is the need to assist middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . lebanon often struggles to attract funding because of its status as a middle-income country ; but that label is misleading , for it ignores the grave structural weaknesses that pre-dates the syrian crisis , or the vast share of its resident population , composed of refugee arrivals from syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty . the us is experiencing a $ 100 million gap for a new school year . i am thankful for these donors who were with us from the start , but we now need additional international support .
part of the problem , of course , is that we are making resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do anyway . so we are using the new year ’s day ’s day to try to change behaviors that are potentially the most complicated of all . what will all this tell us about human nature , and our capacity to live either irreversibly or ethically ? that , in turn , makes failure to define ourselves as an obvious possibility . only anorexic would resolve to eat the ice cream at least once a week , with only a workaholic resolve to spend more on tv .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overestimated the american economy ’s strength for 11 consecutive years . if every year of the fed ’s forecasting was a coin toss , the us would now have eleven heads in a row and a zero tails . the probability that this will happen is one in 2,048 . the fed clearly needs a deep view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . elementary mathematics dictates that a credible forecast should at least overestimate half the time , and undershooting half the time .
the issue , then , is not whether some patients previously assigned a diagnosis seem to have it out of step again , but rather how many of them actually do . any study that seeks to determine whether a psychiatric disorder has been over-diagnosed will find that some self-executing patients do not have it upon re-interviews . but we do think that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % crosses a threshold of clinical significance . such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis . how high the percentage should be before claiming that over-diagnosis is a major problem and value judgment .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and to central planning as a hoped-for panacea hoped-for . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis has been a global one . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can discover at the trouble , but it will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course . at a time of severe economic distress , policymakers are turning to seek solutions and some people to lose faith in the economic system on their own . in many previous banking crises , this was a country or region hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s sweeping travels in europe this year has not attracted as much attention as he is supposed to have , given that he , donald trump ’s chief theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of populist nationalism . likewise , and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere other than in america . as more countries convert themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator . bannon now wants to build a federation of euroskeptic nationalist parties . by joining forces with french far-right national front leader marine le pen , himself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin , bannon appears to have had a new type of “ neo-nationalist ” international .
one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial rule of china . macartney refused to conform to china ’s imperial protocol by dropping to kowtow to the kaiser , because he was not obliged to do likewise on his own sovereign . that , too , was a case of “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord ’s insistence on the equal status of his king . as a result , the mission broke down . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang straight from another incident , almost a century earlier , involving arresting the russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter ’s great in london .
during those five years , the investors earns an additional 2 % annually for a cumulative gain of more than 10 % . here is how the arithmetic works for an investor that rolls above ten-year bonds over the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more per year than it would through treasury bills or bank deposits . assume that the benchmark on ten-year bonds remains unchanged over the next five years , and that it will then rise from 2 % to above 5 % . during those five years , the investors earns an additional 2 % every year , on average , for a cumulative gain of more than 10 % . but when the interest rate on a ten-year bond rise to 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 .
change must start within the transport sector , which accounts for more than half of all existing oil demand – a share that will likely rise in the future . as a result , the g-8 countries should agree no longer to license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards . that decision would be directed not against individual mobility , but against allowing dissipating scarce resources that are more urgently needed to produce more synthetic materials . only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest net consumer of hydrocarbons , can initiate global change . as a result , political leaders should not privilege no particular technology , either .
ithaca , america ’s president-elect donald trump has made it clear that he has merely turned facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for a supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now renewed his accusation that the country manipulates its currency , in order to gain the benefit of its exports . such pronouncements are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets for exactly the same purpose : to prevent the renminbi ’s value from going down too sharply against the dollar . make no mistake : trump claims to chinese currency manipulation are not backed by the facts .
new delhi – late last month , as two indian states and the national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader in a conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves confronting multiple painful truths about their country . the leader who instigated these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of a few “ godman , ” ” ” ” or of self-proclaimed spiritual leaders living there , who flourish across india . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurram rahim singh insan , a hindu compound , a muslim and sikh named , was followed by his word about “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has his own reputation for sexually exploiting his female followers . in 2002 , two of these adherents mustered the courage in delhi to press charges .
by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran will abandon its enrichment program , if only the european union imposes some unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from a reduction in levels of european exports to iran . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not miss the possibility of more unilateral action for propaganda purposes , arguing that iran is having a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of a culture of technological progress . to be sure , while some imports would become more costly for iran , the economic effect of such sanctions will remain limited . for these reasons , europeans will favor a new security council resolution even if its measures are weakened than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally .
his efforts to revise japan ’s ’s ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in his wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , gave him the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , who called abe a “ “ trump ” before trump . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that was consciously seeking to distance japan from its own wartime brand of nationalism . abe and his allies sought to quash this influence . none could be further identified with the political elite as abe , the grandson of the wartime cabinet minister and the later prime minister , and the son of the foreign minister .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it has got to work . as one former mining executive in the region told me , the goal has always been simple : throw assets out of the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss as we can . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationship with global corporations need not be that limited . ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty will require that their workforces be happy and maintain their positive public image . because the customer is abroad and little processing is operational in country , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise help the host economy ?
the first large city to the boom was london , beginning around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other urban areas have been booming pretty much ever since ; prices in most of these places are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now , growth in home prices has been languishing in some of these cities , too . this has produced a huge windfall for homeowner , but it hurts anyone ’s plan to buy .
yet it also incites profound social changes rooted in rising rights consciousness within society , something strengthened -- and amplified -- not only by economic growth , but by a rapid spread of the internet . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens increasingly seem to know how to protect their own economic and social interests by exploiting the tongue of their privileges . what is surprising is that the government 's mechanisms of checks have been largely effective . the government employs a host of new laws on law , shadowy internet police , and powerful hardware-based nationally ' information filtering inside it . controls also rely on internet user demography , most of whom belong to china 's economic elite and embrace the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle than as instruments of political or social revolution .
but whereas common european causes arise daily , they do not have any europe-wide political representation . this european polity lacks the second critical element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level decisions . no single center-right political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent european citizens of associated interests , because none has to compete for europe-wide public support .
this time , too , the name of any deep economic thinker seemed omitted or for any particular economic model . is there anything more , actually the question one can ask ? though a president ’s ’s advisers might change this , one would think that the candidates would recognize them , if only to suggest where their own ideas came from ; after all , realistically , what they are selling is their ability to judge and manage the relevant expertise , rather than their own capacity as economists . and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect the debate over their advisers or their intellectual influences . obama originally held an astonishing team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , an “ austan goolsbee , ” and cass sunstein .
for another , they will need to make their own , distinct contributions . what this distinct contribution could be is not hard to define . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us precludes eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive commonalities on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help to intensify the arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism just as it gave a useful shove to america ’s diplomacy . for another , they will have to make their own , distinct contribution . they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s donations .
earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was obscure but large collections ( more than 70 ) of illnesses caused by a particular type of genetic error – one that occurs in the machinery of cells that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what causes the mutations that give rise to these congenital disorders , and treatments exist for only a few . as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . one reason for this is that a tiny number of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , with policymakers selling themselves to the highest bidder . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold . though corruption is more a symptom than the causes of ukraine ’s problems , its culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state with the means to uproot corrupt politicians and entrepreneurs . in time , this “ corruption ” culture will descend on society .
by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing than is affordable in israel , thereby resolving one of the major economic problems facing the country ’s middle class . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sober interpretation . “ red lines ” in israel have a way of being mughting themselves along lines that are drawn in the sand then rendered invisible by the slightest wind . in israel , obama will encounter a country that has truly moved , but not toward the missing middle class . on the other hand , settlements offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s major economic problems .
japan had a similar experience during the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s property bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . as a result , the ratio of fiscal revenues to overall expenditures this fiscal year has fallen below 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the us government continues on that path , many are expecting next year ’s budget deficit to widen further . despite japan ’s fiscal position , the stock market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains steady , at least for now .
at the end of august , heads of state from the southern african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges before them . among mugabe ’s 54 paragraphs of the summit ’s final communiqué , two settled zimbabwe . mugabe ’s regime took the outrage after the outrage . his catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that allowed mugabe to hang on to power ; raj and murdering the supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; the transformation of the fertile , prosperous country once considered an africa breadbasket to an area where half the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its attacks on the daily news , its suppression of critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe .
and the american constitution allows individual states to function like what brandeis called laboratories of democracy through experimenting with innovative policies without pimming the rest of the country at risk . there is a long , rich history of successful experimentation , followed by my own work . a 2014 pew study found that whereas only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with a national policy course , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . california , wyoming , allowing women voters to vote , was an example that encouraged the passage of the nineteenth amendment ( the enfranchising every adult woman ) . state and local governments were leaders in establishing the public primaries and secondary education system , as well as in state colleges and universities .
in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone . should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? europe must aim at sustainable , non-inflationary growth and the creation of competitive jobs . with a headline annual inflation rate of 0.3 % , the core reason is the sharp decline in commodity prices and the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . only greece currently has a slightly negative inflation rate .
additionally , oil-price speculation may have induced “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products in advance to protect against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises to make it to find that overall refined inventories will rise , but that rise is not part of the reported commercial inventories . the implication is that while speculators can drive up prices and increase their inventories even as the total number of trading inventories remains little changed . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , because it tends to come against a backdrop of powerful fundamentals . thus , record-high speculative prices have likely caused bundesbank traders to release inventories , but those releases may purchase speculators now behave like active lessees on commercial storage capacity .
but the two states lack the domestic revenue needed to sustain their institutions . furthermore , the disintegration that the region already witnessing and will undoubtedly continue to witness – reverberate beyond the arab map with the establishment of a sovereign kurdish state . the arab spring has toppled some regimes , though not the rest of the world . if they wish to survive well in the coming century , they are likely to be able to subsumed under a union backed by a wider , stronger , more powerful , and more established nation-state . such a state , either to exisiting a de facto , or to a widespread , will have a permanent impact on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and on the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) .
indeed , new risk-management products are being worked out for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america . so risk management , by smoothing out bumps in incomes , may be exceedingly critical in alleviating the impacts of poverty . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . a good fortunes and bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest people are particularly vulnerable when adversity – such as a hurricane in a fishing town – is especially vulnerable when adversity . we tend to think that new risk-based risk-management products , such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily be the interests of the wealthy , or at least the relatively affluent population .
that disconnect is nothing new ; after all , there have always been tsars and serfs , the politburo commissars and the proletariat . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , though he sometimes proclaimed their allegiance to a kind of hazy , collective sense of rossiyane ( russia ’s citizens ) , deprived – or free – it ’s the matter of opinion , russia of all its collective life ; both the true life of shared hardship and the imaginary , half-life of communist solidarity . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s great private oil companies ) gas stations . today , everybody trades on a life and hardship , individually ( a new word in our everyday vocabulary ) , without regard for any kremlin yearning for a life uniform . indeed , even “ uniformity ” of russia is different nowadays .
a new system in which supposedly reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would lessen that competition , while easing the risk to destination and source countries . in fact , increased international cooperation would maximize the benefits of immigration ’s economic benefits . but , despite the potential benefits of collaboration to control illegal immigration , most eu countries , including the us and the united kingdom , are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view collaboration as unfeasible , given natural competition among destination and source countries for the most productive workers . reversible bonds would act like an interest-rate mechanism by both parties , shielding destination countries from the expense of fiscally inspired immigration and protecting their resource-poor countries from the expense of losing talented workers .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy has shrunk at an estimated 23 % . germany , the top-performing european country , has recorded the miserly 0.7 % average annual growth rate over the past six years . each downturn eventually comes to its lowest level , at which it will end . the mark of good policies is that they succeeds in making a downturn that is shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been . the mark of the austerity policies that many governments have embraced is that they are making the downturn far deeper and longer than is needed , with protracted consequences .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice between their compatriots , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as pope . twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriots , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as pope . here , a prominent polish writer , said “ poland ’s second baptism . ” some were frightened ; others wept with joy . but , even in our euphoria , we expected not just how much the new pope would have changed not just poland , but the world . his first return visit to his native country soon after showed to all the global power of the pope .
in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ clarify ” article 104 of the basic law , declaring that all oswald spengler had to be “ solemn , accurate , full , and sincere . ” to most hong kong ’s lawyers , the display of political authority did not represent simply a reinterpretation of old rules , but rather a move toward inventing new ones . moreover , while hong kong ’s courts surely could have handled the issue on their own – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is reassured by an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature – a enraged china has intervened . yau and leung were barred by their positions by congress by congress . restraint , after all , is no longer a leninist virtue .
the international labor organization ( ilo ) reports that unions are in retreat in most nations . chibok , the multinational sportswear company , advertises its corporate code as “ based on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . prodded by groups such as a workers ’ rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations are promising if they should have paid their living wages , agree to monitors , and even give staff a voice in the workplace . but sensitivity to human rights has done no to staunch trade unionism ’s decline worldwide . the members of the international sportswear company , advertises its corporate code as “ based on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights .
responsibility for sourcing at scale is a duty , not a choice . the united states has already taken the next logical step . the us securities and exchange commission requires companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate such raw material ’ propulsion , as well as to mitigate risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . in july , the us securities and exchange commission requiring companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these types of raw materials ’ origins , as well as to mitigate risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk zones . in fact , responsible sourcing is a duty rather than a choice .
most of their productive and financial assets held by foreign firms are in the hands of foreign firms , just as most of the rules that govern their economies were determined by the eu . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim that they are defending the national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward an ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . the truth , however , is that cee countries have little to lose in the path of national sovereignty . they conclude that they can have it on both ways ; maintain the benefits of economic integration without losing their skills to infringe on their citizens ’ rights , or use eu financial transfers to build a patron-client relationship and reinforce their hold over the state .
indeed , the deep and pervasive market failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental risks and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity . as the just-released report “ toward a green economy : the pathways to sustainable development and human-induced poverty eradication prove , the market-economy as today has resulted in the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . ” one concern among critics is that a shift to a greener economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world of forests , fresh water and profit-seeking behavior by central bankers and traders , whose shortcomings have helped trigger the impact of financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . systemic crises in food , fuel , and finance that came to a head in 2008 , and this is ongoing in many countries – have their roots in an economic paradigm that has not accounted for the value of the nature and its array of life-support services . that is why links to governance and institutions at rio +20 are just as important as they are about moving toward a green economy : markets are the human project that requires rules and institutions to guide not just its direction , but their borders .
by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me something of an islamophobe ? an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately , was charged with using the language of holocaust denial . coincidentally , a lethal attack on gaza came at the very same moment that a staunch clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern grand peacemakers put forth in arms published books about how the task is appropriately tackled . by this standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me something islamophobe ? third , as usual as israel has charged with anti-semitism with those who dare to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective retribution against the palestinians .
rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s right-wing democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election , an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to end both his career and the politics of race-baiting . but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on ethnic hatred as he has subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . a similar political imperative is at the heart of the hindu sinhalese chauvinism that has made a precipitous comeback in sri lanka ’s public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese have been emboldened during the last , bloody push that culminated sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . now , however , the former president is mounting a angry win bid , and perhaps well won a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
around the world , from north america to northern nigeria to northern nigeria , schools now require safety plans to ensure the safety of their schoolchildren and to deliver the trust of parents and their communities . these are not the isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; that is what happens when classrooms are becoming targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . such attacks are revealing with the stark clarity that providing schooling is not just about blackboards , books , and curricula . in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of strikes by armed groups in afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , syria , sudan , syria , and syria have suffered the worst . ( indeed , boko haram has literally been translated to mean that “ false ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” )
meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are drawing on innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugee networks and hiring them for online work . some , such as “ tent ” approaches , encourage companies to hire refugees , and integrate them into supply chains where they live . more scholarship opportunities for refugees , coupled with stronger financing for schools in and out of refugee settlements , would also be welcome . modest seed funding can go a long way toward assisting refugee-owned enterprises take off .
that is why it has become increasingly dismissed in favor of the agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in addis ababa , egypt for the fourteenth meeting of the parties ’ meetings to the convention on biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will consider whether to press the brakes on gene drives , to ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples consult fully before those technologies flourish in their communities . the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems .
it is not exactly clear how long venezuela of hugo chávez was actually dead before his passing was officially announced . the informational vacuum reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping a sultan ’s death secrets for weeks until the succession was established . the mise-en-scene emotional manipulation , surrounding chávez ’s death , appears certain to translate into the electoral support of his gray successor , nicolás maduro . buying time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even hinted at near the end , while going through the complicated and agonizing cancer therapies , that he still seeks “ walking ” and exercising . but will this suffice to establish a chávista lineage ?
at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in affecting the nature of technological innovations . such policies are unlikely to make much of a difference in developing countries . for them , a key impediment will remain that existing technologies enable a poor set of factor substitutes : using less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technology rather than pushing innovation in socially beneficial directions , scaling up growth , rather than replacing less-skilled workers . demanding the quality norms needed to supply global value chains can not be met easily by replacing machines with manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , american president-elect donald trump will assume office has received almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he is working with a republican senate majority , whose members together won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic adversaries . only the republican majority in the house of representatives , headed by speaker paul ryan , has any claims to represent a numerical majority for the bottom 55 % of americans who voted in the 2016 election day . in fact , the administration of the world ’s oldest democracy is not a democratic one . trump will also begin his presidency , with an approval rating downgrade below 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” ” ” ” ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before eliminating it ) – in the history of such ratings .
the s-400 disputes are merely the most recent example of how military procurement matters have created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s ’s ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-production schemes , to accommodate their burgeoning defense-related industries . by contrast , the chinese and , to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more responsive to such turkish demands as part of the former ’s military procurements . and , to some extent , domestic deflationary interests are only part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are experiencing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict .
this is not to say that our reactions to the perils that arise from the legacies of the past need to be rooted in the past . as we embark on the still-new millennium , although ironically , it seems clear that tomorrow ’s possible disorder might be due in no small part to yesterday ’s colonial order . this is not to say that our response to the perils that arise from the legacies of the past must be rooted in the past . underdevelopment in many of the south ’s countries , swallows poorly when they struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world , creates the conditions for a desperate exercise in poverty , ecological breakdowns , and rootless , the unemployed , beyond the control of atrophying state systems . nor will we create a better world in the 21 st century by forgetting what took place in the 19 th and much of the 20th anniversary .
in bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offered by four such bmd collaboration projects : · expand chinese-russian theater-level bmd exercises that build on earlier collaboration , disrupted by russia in august 2008 of the georgian war , and that rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; · an underlying us legal framework to support these and other cooperative project projects is underway . · joint russian-american expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent , and what steps might be taken to raise possible problems ; · the underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative project projects .
though the us tax package that trump signed into law last december ’s front-loaded tax cuts , and now helps the us economy grow , government revenues have remained very responsive to this trend . under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and his boldest policy proposals are likely to tilt toward budget constraints . he has already ruled out any changes to the welfare state . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) , as well as to curtail growth in medicaid spending , have so far failed . and the temporary increase in defense spending will revert to insufficient levels after this fiscal year .
granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table the prospect of a “ one-state ” solution , which , until recently , had gained momentum among experts . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably wo n’t stop the eu from delivering a split vote , with reverberations not just echo throughout the arab world , by inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . indeed , europe ’s divided posture toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record of reaching a foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention its need to preserve the jewish state ’s identity . a split vote , thus , undermines european interests , delivering the unequivocal blowback to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information ’s absence if something is blocked – letting people know that it exists but that they can not have access to it . with google , people begin to expect answers about everything . on the other hand , every time someone in china well-les something and receives answer – a product ’s good and bad note , the details of someone the government does n’t like – has to wonder , why ca n’t i acquire this type of information about everything ” ? rather than calling for cessation of censorship now , the impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding government control over information . a bit of transparency inevitably leads even more to more .
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them make ends meet ; and that , if a state is “ manifestly fail ” to protect its people , the wider international community has a responsibility to step in “ timely and decisive action , ” ” ” ” ” that may include military action if the un security council . while no result was formally agreed or turned public , a few themes emerged from the beijing meeting . taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that it might become possible to recreate an international consensus , so long missing in syria is the question of how to address the most virulent massachusetts atrocity cases . there has been widespread acceptance , first , that the “ responsibility to protect ” the un ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the united nations general assembly in 2005 , remains here to stay . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the whole r2p enterprise – particularly its penalties for military action in exceptional circumstances , is just “ old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ”
so , in fact , the global economy should be thought of as a global capitalist system . by focusing on these problems that i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s benefits . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : the transnational distribution of labor so manifestly turned to the doctrine of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits like economies of scale and the burgeoning diffusion of innovations from one country to another ; that are less simple to demonize static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic rewards , such as the freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and people ; and the freedom of thought linked to an international movement of ideas . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only through deliberate and persistent efforts to right and contain the system ’s deficiencies . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we must understand these better if we want the system to survive .
mueller made clear that a controversial us department of justice was intended to help president richard nixon bars the impeachment of a sitting president . ( nixon was an unindicted collaborator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york case involving his repeal bond participation in order to silence two women , with whom he had sex liaisons shortly after the birth of his son , barron . ) this is neither in the constitution nor a law . trump has portraying the report ’s findings as entirely exonerating it ( “ unany collusion , no interference in the process ” ) , even though the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . making matters worse for trump , a widely admired mueller speech in effect recommended that the us congress commit the impeachment process .
a renewed conflict in abkhazia would bring not only the risks of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia because there are now almost as many as 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the nato-led government . moreover , russia has been enforcing a full-fledged georgian trade embargo , in the hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western , mikhail saakashvili . russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s further secession-minded afghan region , have actually protected their rebel governments . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . another risk in south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
on this front , macron has already offered an ambitious proposals : an individual eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for italy , and a eurozone parliament ( comprising parliamentarians from the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . now that merkel ’s new administration is in place , we will discover how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short term , it seems unlikely that the new government will support macron ’s proposals in their current form . europe needs to make progress on the first opportunity if it is to seize the second , and that means strengthening the eurozone . before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , a franco-german working group was established to reconsider macron ’s proposals .
moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . and large ndbs can have a major impact , particularly in emerging economies . the financial crisis has also spurred some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 , up from $ 2.5 trillion in 2007 . today , they are an important feature of most advanced and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , particularly in china , germany , india , and south korea .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not japan ’s own war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now at war .
the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from islamists to standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks strikingly like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american support ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft overthrow ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and the american government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won in gaza in 2006 . more broadly , military encroachment on civilian politics has , for whatever reason , weakened the processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy work . so , what should america and other governments that support liberal democracy do now ? if choices for the islamists continue their spending spree or the ballots , bullets may now look even more promising .
for example , in the early days of the millennium , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , the prevalence of malaria fell by more than 75 % in both countries from 2000 to 2015 . even so , the world continues to underestimate the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . this not only undermines their capacity to do their job effectively ; it has also placed them at considerable risk , with widespread misinformation on the part of vaccines fueling the attacks against those who actually provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view the country ’s polio vaccination programs as westerners ploys to sterilize and spying on muslims .
the west ’s logic for enlargement was geopolitics : bringing the former soviet republics and the socialist countries of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were declared to have met with both democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began invited even the incestuous and corrupt states that were established to join . moreover , nato not only extended its membership ; it also transformed itself , from the anti- defensive alliances into a offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) . once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union had vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither the army nor the ideological purposes .
normally , the fund expects trouble to come from the usual suspects , an economically volatile developing country , yet this time the crisis unfolded from its headquarters . perhaps this proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right on its nose . if it does , there is a failure that raises two key questions . ironically , this led the imf to focus on its oversight role . so , in the quest to root out the imf ’s failure to do so , we can eliminate its distraction by following more urgent issues .
at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived as america by europeans and internationally ( that is , not the american one ) by the average american citizen . indeed , france ’s relations with the un that resulted in the country ’s resistance to us intervention in iraq in 2003 now have pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . but if nato is – for better or worse – at command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the badly needed green light to french action there . it is a shift that raises an important question : if those who are prepared to act prove incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” ” ” ” ” ” what will happen to global stability , unless those who are also ready to step in ? it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is crucial to understanding the french position on libya .
to be sure , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . if an official encounters with a lobbyist and has n’t been ashamed to death , he simply can be said for that person . and if an official encounters mostly his lobbyists , to the detriment of other kinds of meetings , voters may make judgments about that too , too . to be sure , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . voters can make their own decisions as well .
still , one suspects are that , in many circumstances , the intent is to nip potential competition in the bud . and there is the risk that the us tech giants will exploit their large armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product and , in many cases , their vast legal resources to defend it . still , it is notable that big tech still churned out most of its revenues from its firms ’ core products – for example , apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office , and google ’s search engine . large tech firms might object that all of the capital they pour into new products and services is pushing for innovation . as a result , in practical terms , potentially disruptive new technology is just as likely to become nourished as “ nourished . ”
in other words , precisely because the occasional traders trading rarely stays , it is far easier to demonstrate a nexus of causality between their trades and an illegal ttip . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such a link came through phone surveillance . for example , when a tiny italian bank received from someone who never traded a large order for the shares of the us shoe shortly before it was won by the italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard to be smugly to smell on its place . it is far more difficult , by contrast , to identifying the problem when a person makes hundreds of trades daily . historically , both the state and federal attorney general famously preferred to prosecute “ occasional ” traders that stick out like a sore .
at the same time , african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to hiv contracting . about 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in child transmission rates , adolescent girls still account for more than twice as likely as boys to carry the virus . yet barely one-third of young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , everything all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is being used as a tactic of warfare .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . the actions and choices made by one man or a woman , no matter how potent , are not to determine the destiny of nations itself . that has certainly been true in russia , and it may soon turn out to be as true in turkey as it is in turkey itself . that may be true to a lot or some of the time . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history .
as i show in a new peer-review paper , even if successful , the agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 ºc . that might seem surprising : we constantly hear how each country has made important commitments to reduce carbon dioxide emissions – the so-called “ nationally determined ” contributions , ” ” ” or indcs . according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the capacity to limit the projected temperature rise to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by no means much but a ton lower than the forecast four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many of the prior . figueres hinted that the paris accord would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ºc to 2.7 ° c. though her wording was crafted to avoid any truth telling this , it was , predictably , what most people heard . with a sea-level rise , the sea-level rise would decline by only about 1.3 centimeters .
in the meantime , the eu will most likely fail to pursue substantive policy or institutional reforms in the near term , owing to fears that doing so might adversely affect the outcome of a consequential election this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . this would require eu policymakers to abandoning the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order while upholding the eu ’s fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , for the current system imposes too many constraints and containing far too few efficient adjustment mechanisms . to be sure , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward broader integration and ever-more de-escalation of policy . anti-european political forces are clearly making electoral inroads and will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic and high .
and on september 9 , while local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests , organized by anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” ” on the election days . navalny himself could well have attended the event after being arrested for an earlier un-sanctioned demonstration . yet , from september 3 , at least 53 % of the population said that they were prepared to protest further . russians realized that they did not need to win , at every cost ; they could have been great without the kremlin as a militaristic say-so . then there was putin ’s announcement , an spurring ambit of protests that propelled putin ’s pledge to soften the measure , while asking for russia ’s understanding .
in fact , china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions there . by the time europe and china crossed the path through the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and so forced china into a chain of unilateral , humiliating concessions . at the same time , china squandered its economic and technological potential by itself , rather than the result of an external power . it had been more than , china ’s imperial state and society had been destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 , on the basis of external pressures and inward demand for change .
where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic strides in their planning and making an entire city there . true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare occurrence . at the same time , private developers have difficulties getting a big conspiracy free of restraints . but they are prone to being ingenious at developing glamorous new areas from little towns within a hour of ’s commute from major cities . those cities ’ evident success , as they are of both government and economic centers , attests to the reality that urban land derives its value from the presence of a well-planned city there .
so far , venezuela ’s corporate elite and much of the investment community has assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : without blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis about not to happen , but chavez will have to choose venezuela ’s future . if he follows statist/populist in 2001 , 2001 will suffer a crisis year . it may last for awhile but it will generate increasing friction with his economic realty and the increasing incentive for chavez to become an authoritarian whole . if he opens his economy and adjusts the exchange rate , the path to growth and stability will follow .
that means that the us treasury expects the average surplus from 1999/2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown ’s strictures to be met . growth turns out to be a return above 2005-06 to bringing the current cycle to an end . the vast surpluses of the three-year period since 1999 far outweigh america ’s official deficits predicted in the subsequent two years . yet , in the manner of independent forecasters , independent forecasters are more pessimistic about the future . the average current-account surplus since that cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp .
instead , strategies derived from the view that all our behaviors were selfish , with an intellectual contest ostensibly meant to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort that was also recognized with nobel prizes . a new revolution in economics may find space for strategies that influence ideals and identity , rather than merely taxes and subsidies . if successful , the new revolution can result in strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels . nonetheless , as georgia ’s price long ago showed , it may make us altruistic , at least toward people we perceived as members of the group that we are what we are described as “ us . ” in the process , we may come to understand that we vote , because that is what our behaviors first knew to be , and we excel at our jobs , because we strive for respect and self-perception , rather than merely universal .
of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own , and it is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; on the contrary , it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as incentives for governments and parties to act responsibly and uphold the rule of law . nato fixes the hard limits to the autonomy of its local political elites . moreover , joining nato implies subsuming romania ’s army and intelligence services under nato ( i.e. , america ) control , thereby any attempt to stave off a coup attempt or stirring up trouble between the romanian people ’s community and the us sizeable hungarian minority may be blocked . such openly thuggish rulers as the kuchma of ukraine or lukashenka of belarus make them almost inconceivable in romania nowadays . the much more tightly bound for a democratic world a country like romania is , the less likely it is that they have to have any kind of dramatic social or political turmoil or eviscerate their own democratic system .
this , in fact , is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . the puzzle is one reason that neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor mounting evidence of the deteriorating pattern of regime performance in china has ever persuaded even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule has now become a clear possibility . an apparent explanation is the power of conventional thinking . long-ruling regimes , think of the former soviet communist party , indonesia ’s ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak , are typically deemed invulnerable , even just before they collapsed . in fact , the consequences of leadership deflation are relatively easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and a loss of governmental credibility .
when it comes to the diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what the british gamblers would call an “ form . ” on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to allow the flush toilet adjoining its room , and instead used the chamber pot that he brought from china . perhaps one suspected that stalin , as the bbc supposedly last year , had gathered and analyzing his feces to glean information about what was brought to bear in china . but there is a point of recent behavior . some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s hindu granddaughter , who falsely says , gaveled his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the topic to world leaders ’ manners .
its further development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . this is why so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” ” ” ” or kremlin-backed loyalists want to maintain control over the protest movement , and using it as a force in any final fighting with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . more broadly , loyalists have argued that the quest for change precludes criticism of the government , which somehow should have been influenced through constructive propositions . system liberals believe that russia has had , throughout the world , built an acceptable market economy . until recently , putin ’s loyalists have argued that the quest for change precludes criticism of a government that somehow should be strongly influenced through constructive propositions .
my office has worked closely with the us state to assure that , in most cases , juries are employed . similarly , my office has defended the working of liberal weekly newt vremya ( new times ) briefs on the by moscow ’s municipal government on the premise of a commercial dispute about the rent . that struggle is out of the end , but after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities must take into account the public ’s negative attitude to their efforts to quash this publication . to be sure , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights issues like the low grade war in chechnya or the beginning of the yukos affair . my office pays closer attention to chechnya , though this is no easy thing from moscow .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has focused attention on its increasing commercial muscle , its rising naval ambitions , and its expanding capacity to project military power . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with just half of the world ’s roughly 50,000 large dams , is quickly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive , hydro-engineering projects on supranational rivers . one critical issue , meanwhile , typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern , historic scale . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on a continent by controlling multiple international rivers ’ headwaters and manipulating their cross-border river headwaters . asia ’s ice-water map has fundamentally changed , following the 1949 communist victory of china .
they generate continued risks to economic stability , without providing compensating benefits when it comes to ramping up investment in productive activities . as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reforms are , they are bound to side with measures that redress the asymmetry of a political approach . as stanford university ’s larry summers and others have argued for a long time , it is true that banks demand , at least on a minimal level , greater capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . in the us , holding up workdays elections , rather than weekends or holiday , in conjunction with rigorous registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules , places ordinary workers at significant disadvantage . the fact that financial institutions escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power .
a serious look back over the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands along the white house lines is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas occupied by israel in 1967 . for israel , an occupying power whose people enjoy a democratic civilian government and per capita gdp tens of times that of the people it rejects basic rights of freedom and independence , the photo opportunities provided by meetings and greeting palestinian leaders have replaced achieving the peace process . the leaders of the wider world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to make peace . negotiators have paraded every possible solution to the permanent-status issues of jerusalem , border , settlements , refugees , and economic relations .
this has led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : which is what the us , china , or the us ? in personal relations , the denial tends to merge imbalances , merely for a long time . such is the case with the us and china . in other words , the export miracle has been sparked not by state-sponsored chinese firms but by offshore efficiency-crafted solutions . ultimately , denial or imbalances fueling frictions and blame , holding a codependent partner responsible for the problems of one ’s own making .
as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of the curry is prepared ; the us needs only additional spices from the major players , india , the us , brazil , and china . these can be provided in a politically palatable way , which also means that the conclusion of the doha round lies within the us , not beyond that of our grasp . if doha fails , some say , life will go further . that is obviously true but that does not make that view any less naïve . but just as why bother to continue trying ?
the eu has also suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . in turn , lukashenko made the economic rationale that his country needs the eu ’s backing , and could no longer depend entirely on russia without paying a heavy political price . given that 20 % of russian gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with his government has become a top priority . but the thaw in eu-belarus relations needs a reciprocal , permanent step . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic decline of its natural capital . plant and animal species around us worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented pace – from 100 to 1,000 today ’s natural rate of extinction . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from their inherent environmental degradation . a planet ’s most at-risk ecosystems are situated in the developing world , rendering them dependent on some of the world ’s neediest communities for preserving it . but , in the developing world , immediate economic necessity often over-riding long-term imperatives , while protecting a fragile environment is rarely a national priority .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy waste-generating portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of more than 350 gigawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . that is more than sufficient to satisfy the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , while renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , driving them to become increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , the amazonian photovoltaic solar industry price has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues down today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy procurement program has seen an overall decline in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the story is of the illicit malian immigrant scaling back paris to rescue a toddler , or the creation of a populist government in italy that is aimed at deport one half-million migrants . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly by fake and soundly motivated claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe was driving down their wages . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – do just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other eu countries , by skills-matching visas . and yet , despite steady coverage on the issue , it remains precisely because of its view that the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . since the vote , the anti-brexit camp has grappled with similar distortions , warning that , once freed from the european union , the uk would face a skill shortage .
most health-care professionals will soon have digital assistants offering diagnoses ( notably , of certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform noninvasive surgeries , or have found pertinent publicized research . the problem with gdp is not that it is the poor measure of basic material wellbeing ( set aside by distributional concerns ) , but rather that it is incomplete . it does not include increasing the scale of goods and services delivered at negative incremental costs , or those of submaterial wellbeing or social progress more broadly . that ’s not to suggest that we should scrap each other or revise gdp ; on the contrary , we need to recognize its limitations . looking ahead , the same cost-benefit structure promise big incremental increases in many areas of well-being .
the significant change in the social composition of india ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence is indeed a testament to a work of democracy . whereas palogical studies in the united states show that the poor do not vote in substantial numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged a whopping 23 % , before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the very opposite was true in india . studies of the indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest voted in numbers well above the national average , with educated middle class turning out in numbers well below it . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line in the hot sun , believing that their votes will make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to change the outcome , have staying at home . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance in the political class in general offers less cause for celebration .
indeed , should we be watching the french presidential campaign with some admiration or alarm ? it is undeniably a large “ “ “ “ “ show ” with all the substance ” of a hollywood blockbuster , including a surprise roll : the emergence of the “ third man , ” ” ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou has now had to be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has dithered at ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy ’s two most remarkable spokesmen for his candidacy . or , perhaps a little of both ?
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states , which might challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any kind of concessions or privileges granted to one country in a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . according to press reports , trump presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very sheltered ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased tariffs on us automobiles and other industrial goods . here , japan acts “ voluntarily , ” under intense us pressure . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render trump ’s “ national-security ” concerns over imported toyotas and self-hondas – the justification that allows him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and soaring interest rates . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch society-economic model -- that countries are too different from that . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his business union ’s connections , as well as his working-class rapport , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvements in brazil ’s general economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not highly high by regional standards , its rapidly growing labor force still requires a high rate of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with employment creation provides the surest possible route to reducing poverty in brazil .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times as much twitter followers , rather than a national rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , an estimated 1.66 million of twitter user signaled their support for a stronger gunt-control legislation and their resentment of america ’s gun-control lobby . in 2011 , when the then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protestants in the view that simply take a physical place does a lot , ” ” ” ” an apt answer would have been : “ in fact , occupying public spaces may accomplish a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are and on how many of them number . still , assembly in physical space fulfills roles for a democracy that online activism , however enduring or passionate , simply can not . thus , the civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950 ’s and 1960s often evoke the “ meaning ” of our numbers .
so , when it comes to explanation for the dollar ’s decline over the last year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver on whatever he has promised . there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement in july . there has been no across-the-board import tariff of more than 30 years . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements rather than forecasting future trends .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . in one of its most recent articles , milton friedman wrote that the savings-nowadays takes the form of home . to me , this view of things explains far better than the orthodox account why , for all the money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the us economic recovery petered out . of course , some worry about the collapse of the us household saving rate , but few were overly concerned . just as lenders did not force money on the public prior to the crisis , so they now can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek productivity-enhancing loans when markets are flat or shrink .
the immensely successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating more than two decades ago , did just that , basically building a “ third way ” model that was later established by tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements were clear : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case , with low-paid workers benefiting enormously from the social wage ” increase in medical care and retirement incomes ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal internationalist foreign policy . on the other hand , until now , the current alp government has struggled to make ends meet anything as compelling as it is now . but there do seem to be some basic rules of political survival that have largely been ignored in australia in recent years , feeding them to help both the alp and the rest to remember . the first rule is to have philosophy and to stick .
finally , in order to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as their sponsors . this will require not just enough financing , but also a human and capacity to match migrants and their sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria was never going to become a crisis in the first place . it was a long history of making , easy to foresee , and eminently manageable for europe and the international community . that , in turn , is the fifth bit in a comprehensive plan .
furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are , sadly , harmful . with recent estimates putting the required extra investment at some 2 % of gdp per year in 2040 , there will be a correspondingly smaller proportion of the output share that will be available for us household consumption . it would do the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be discarded , and additional investment in a way that gdp becomes less carbon-intensive . the problem does not originate in the use of an instrument of a price . a corollary is that wealth drops like the value of fuel-inefficient homes , its gluttonous automobiles , and the oil firms ’ stock declines .
beyond that , matters could have been much worse . owing to the withdrawal agreement that was concluded this past october , a destructive , “ hard ” brexit has now been averted . since the start of the brexit negotiations , we at the eu – from the 27 eu member states and the european parliament – have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was , first and foremost , to secure europe ’s citizens ’ rights , including by finding a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and greece , for whom the negotiation was about peace and stability , not just business and the economy . but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership .
such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent advocate of american expansionism : “ a pure war is , in the long run , far better for a human ’s soul than its most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ” history teaches that diplomacy all too often generates results only when it is backed by a crushing force . and nothing has attenuated tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade that it has for many years now .
yet today , with iran ’s clout expanding and islamist terrorism continuing to proliferate , palestine is the last of saudi arabia ’s worries . so essential are the changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , said nothing when us president donald trump has acknowledged jerusalem as israel ’s “ perpetual capital . ” at the same time , politics is superseding religion within israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist driving in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel .
europe is abuzz with merger not only to take advantage of europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront hard competition in world markets . in france ’s large strategic game , there is a hot one in which banks and fashions ; italy is seeing its major players run on a european and global scale . in sum , the old continent is hot . no one can say how deep the change will go or how fast they will make a europe in the fast lane . no day passes without major headlines about large european mergers ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations overflow in the eu .
greece ’s debt crisis provided a stark warning that european policymakers must not let its public debt load up indefinitely . the eu was right to react vigorously to make sure that europe ’s stability , by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism ( esm ) . germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all of the eurozone ’s governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore confidence in the markets – and to their own citizens . recent studies show that , once the government ’s debt burdens hit the threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth .
it is this type of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or from financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the true sons and daughters of the people . to prewar fascists , the americas were often regarded as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . but stalin did not come up with this notion . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as the marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or internationalists ” – people whose allegiance was suspect . not considered to be part of indigenous russia , jews were assumed to be part of an international cabal and hence to be inherently treacherous .
the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend rooted in a core conviction that armed tactics of any variety are most potent – and in some versions the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . it should be above the us constitution , and not an article for a referendum . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really the case behind an attack on the american consulate ? “ they ” should not come close to the shariah .
in london early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer issues from the press regarding his support for a two-state solution . recently , he said that his ultimate objective is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” state , which is limited in its size and sovereignty . their hope surely shrank led further as they saw their bulldozers arrive to prepare the ground for new settlements , rather than an uncommon occurrence . as a result , the number of israelis living in virtually jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since signing a memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel last year . in any case , israel now seems to have fallen the charade .
structural transformation to economies that had experienced a sharp fall in interest rates as they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now must be swift , in crisis , and without the luxury of a currency devaluation . the pro-europe case foundation was partly the promise of continued upward prosperity . the pain that this policy produces has been exposed in protest across the continent and in the bitter impact of many struggling families , the young and the elderly . europe ’s ’s design flaw – an eu economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics – has become starkly apparent . at present , that pledge is , in part , a question .
if west germany , faced with reunification , rolled back all of these unaffordable constraints to freedom of market play , the economic costs would be far less aggressive : east and west germany would get more nearly full employment , driving productivity growth far more aggressively . germany ’s corporatism , of course , did not permit any such solution : the unions wanted their salaries protected . the only way to secure them was for the government to continue paying lots of unemployment compensation in a high-wage east germany . reunification meant that everybody would get not only the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously adverse institutions : labor unions , overpaid unemployment and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . the problem after all does not lie in east germany but rather in the west .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister shaul mofaz offered an unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s declaration is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted not only in the middle east , but in the united states as well . any return from the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s borders , and could thus be not only politically naïve but irrational . that notion is of a hegemonic iran that is seeking to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to have stretching from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and finally , from iran to the saudi-arabia to yemen , recent armed confrontations between hezbollah and the lebanese government are said to be just another mark about iran ’s hegemonic reach .
stanford – successful political candidates are trying to implement the proposals on which they run . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , control the house of representatives , and filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the power to do virtually whatever they wanted in 2009 , and so it was done . obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion us-style stimulus ” bill , which passed with heavily indebted key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public-sector employees ; adopted sweeping , highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be held by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced industry-by-y-selects , which selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at only the world war ii ; and centralized power in washington and dc . the last election , followed by such sweeping shifts in policy direction , occurred in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , expenditures , and regulations , together with the support of the us federal reserve , backed the course of disinflation . likewise , at the same time in 1988 , the 1992 , and 2000 ’s elections had been fairly consequential as well , the policy shift had been nearly as widespread in 1980 and 2008 .
what is disputed is the nature of such rules . they see a trading system that privileges entrepreneurship over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . all sides agree that the stability of the international economy is predicated on a system of global rules . developing countries are complaining about the restrictive regulations applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) , and the fear that the new demands they face above labor and the environment are designed to undermine its competitiveness . opponents of trade liberalization switch through the wto ’s secretiveness and the “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , as well as the influence of rule-making corporate interests .
not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . but , fighting freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob argues , namibia must defend the freedoms that it has won . some – such as fisheries – are renewable , and governments are working hard to preserve and enhance the government . in addition , geingob recognizes how transparency keeps him safe from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups .
· “ ir # 2 inventions were so important … that they took a full 100 years to have their leading effect . ” the vulnerability of gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four phrases : · “ both the first two revolutions had required roughly 100 years for the full effects ” to percolate through the economy . · “ ir # 2 inventions were so important … · “ ir # 2 ” inventions were so substantial … . they took a full 100 years to have their central effect . ”
this may be the right response if inflows and upward pressure on the exchange rate are driven by fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , very large and persistent growth differential ) . given all of this , the most troubling policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to the inflows that will inevitably drive up their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing and allow the currency to appreciate . but , on many issues , the inflows are fueled by short-run factors , fads , and rising irrational exuberance , which may lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out unconventional export sectors or import-competing sectors , loss of competitiveness , and eventually a large current-account deficit and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , intervenes aggressively to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
if labor-force participation rates were 66 % as they were in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % as they were in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just above 11 % , rather than the rate of 6.7 % . plunging debt service is largely the outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . so long as the stock of us debt remains excess , consumers dismiss reduced interest expenditure as no more than a temporary boost from the fed . furthermore , the drop in the unemployment rate largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions that have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . yes , some progress has been made on the road to recovery .
he then announced a bold eu consolidation program to cut the fiscal deficit to 1.5 % of gdp this year , targeting a growth deficit of about 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but , while she likes to raise her voice , she is acting with prudence : germany ’s fiscal adjustment today is clearly in reality very gradual . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the brink of retaliation . he then announced a bold eu consolidation program to cut the cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit to 1.5 % of gdp this year , thus targeting a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . upon assuming office , he had entrusted budget forecasting to his fresh , independent office for budgetary responsibility ( obr ) in order to forfeit any opportunity for a sleight-of-hand .
indeed , the demilitarization of sinai are one fundamental component of egypt ’s peace with israel . other great and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have faced reductions in the scope of acquiring certain weapons and military equipment for decades . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees ’ claim to the right of return to israel proper is an understandable , logical , and just plain purpose . what sense would it make mean to bring back the millions of palestinians , whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where most belong to another ethnic group ? are they obliged to return to the homes and farms that no longer exist ?
among other things , renzi ’s proposed reforms would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the parliament ’s upper house ) . the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is appealing to voters to authorize some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi , a legacy that serves as prime example to damage right-wing populism can do to the country . berlusconi ’s victory could add wind to le pen ’s sails . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from regaining its full power again , blocking any criminal accusations that he can trigger . in austria , voters will choose between pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) .
still , it is important to remember that there is an positive aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . as political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some of its domestic protesters , rather than treating all forms of collective activism as subversive , can be seen as reflecting a growing sense of safety . conversely , some of china ’s most troubling moves may be chalked up about excessive feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of the gdt critic liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . would a genuinely self-confident ruling elite have become sufficiently skittish for its activism ?
again , however , debates about competition and fair trade prove the intellectual poverty and inequity of trade negotiations . but it makes a big difference whether a good is produced domestically or abroad . within developed countries , concerns about such behavior have long been raised -- so-called `` predation '' by well-defined '' -- and well-defined standards have been developed . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such tenets in the international arena to make it irrelevant whether the producer is homs in , say , homeland or foreign when judging whether it is engaged in unfair trade practices . anti-dumping laws are intended to ensure fair trade by preventing goods from selling below cost .
arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous businesses that bring few quick returns . but significant amounts of substantial contributions are being made that less-powerful states and leaders , as well as civil-society organizations , can make . if that is to be avoided , continued leadership from the summit , above all from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will prove indispensable . but launching treaty ratification will make nowhere fast in the u.s. senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to full force ; beginning negotiations with the new start to lift fissile material production for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation treaty with effective measures to detect and discourage treaty walk-outs ; reach some form of international governance of the most sensitive aspects of the npt ; and beginning on all new rounds of nuclear-armed states , involving virtually serious disarmament talks . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , there will be all too easy about commitment to wane .
i had just toured those cells : killing yourself in them literally impossible . their interiors resemble the inside of a smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks are fold ; there is no bedding that one can use to suffocate oneself . to see why , the military has investigated the military , it was put to death . this “ apparent suicide ” was immediately suspect . “ that was the investigation , ” he replied at the time .
moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . yet gathering information is only one step toward closing the loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming the gaps in prevention policies . for example , in south africa , the unodc has established three centers ( at mpumalanga , east cape , and northern cape ) offering legal and health-care services to women and working with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence , and assessing related risk factors such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use . decisive policy action , bolstered by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve the functioning of reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries .
beyond returning history itself , there is the reality that emerging and developing economies now account for around two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just a third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . a key driver of the higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of such sovereign bonds on such sovereign bonds . moreover , there is mounting evidence that lenders ’ rights and coercive powers in external sovereign-debt markets have risen in the wake of america ’s recent court judgements . these findings are no longer an invitation to embrace the inimical to indiscriminate risk taking . adding to the attractiveness of a emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , their returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns .
in countries ( for example , sweden ) , where recourse loans allows the seizure of household incomes to enforce payments on mortgages , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . but higher home prices would rise , the further decline , and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage would – as long as the real-estate bubble deflates . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-replay of the latest housing-market train wreck . in countries where unbanked loans enable borrowers to walk off with mortgages , when their value exceeds that of their home ’s , a housing bust can lead to massive bankruptcies and a banking crisis .
in this view , the us , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . but the arab world is divided over how to cope with a sudden rise in iranian power . tensions are especially acute in saudi arabia , which has warned american concerns about the dangers of iraq ’s potentially meltdown , and are now finding itself under unequal eyes with iran . some in the kingdom are arguing that saudi arabia must confront iran , oppose sunni arab interests , and turn iran into a hands-on regional power . other saudis are confident that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and urging dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at their summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to an end to the trade war remains far from clear . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the last g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude for weakness . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t nurture a war .
indeed , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in economically or politically important sectors such as finance or real estate , allow it to publicize achievements and socialize losses . so , knowing that the next time will not be different , the authorities are trying their best at preventing a “ “ next time ” next time . but risk takers have every incentive to try their good fortune once again , knowing that at worst they will be bailing out . when asked to choose between saying and making the risk of being known on posterity as a central banker who allows the system to collapse and the intangible future of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take a genius to predict the central banker ’s ruling out . although the authorities insist on the next time to be different , everyone knows that they will make the same decision when confronted with the same choice again .
but in a world of modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies what might matter increasingly are transportation costs , which implies that geography can lead to deep regional inequalities . while such disparities may have other causes as well , geography still has many things to explain . first , this explains why , for example , china ’s large coastal regions developed earlier and more rapidly after the country launched their own market-oriented reforms and opened up to the world . among large continental european countries , including india and brazil , only china possesses a small segment of coastal but vast hinterland . when the primary object of human consumption was food , this was not really a problem , because what mattered was land and water .
the idea that some version of the soros plan ’s plan would actually accelerate growth is a speculative , at best . as a result , careful calculation of the impact of the subprime mortgage decline on us aggregate demand ( of which the us pursued and which johnson and soros did not ) bear out on their claims : extra spending per dollar of relief was probably less than an dime on the us dollar ’s reserves expended . that leaves aside the additional lesson , gained from experience ; that it is that us institutions with large amounts of public capital typically remain very passive in order to increase their lending . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in the us in 2009 , paying more money for the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) would have proved to be politically difficult or impossible . most of the benefits from reducing mortgages accrue to consumers merely over time .
in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of around 2 % to provide a price-stability “ anchor . ” because many treaties are “ sticky ” ( that is , rather than easily revised ) in monetary terms would both inflict harm on the us economy . ” keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . governments , according to the conventional wisdom , should aim for a stable price , with a modest bias toward stimulating the “ animal spirits ” of merchants and shoppers . rising prices reduce the savings-and-growth value of saving and retirement , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encourage hoard to save and raise the true burden of debt .
today , the british appear an insuperable impediment to attainment by the rest of the more integrated eu . margaret thatcher was always the opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . in law , britain can avoid unwelcome developments in the eu on the grounds that the union was founded on the treaty ; thus , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power , because it demanded , and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu . the british hostility to that objective has become ever more fierce , given that john major had lost its tory majority in parliament , and has fallen under the anti-europeans ’ authority .
princeton – throughout the world , democracy everywhere is confronting a serious challenge . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to overthrow established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , that vision of recovered national sovereignty is fueling a rush to leave the eu . brazil is being paralyzed by a constitutional crisis by citizens of one kind or another . europeans are watching their malaise to europe ’s democratic deficit .
persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so given recent court rulings in the united states that boost the hand of holdout investors . given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . to escape exciting markets , it would have to be optional . at the same time , ukraine would have been the ideal candidate for re-profiling . but there is no unfettered alternative , either .
water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a bare minimum , a decision that affects millions of people who are already carrying scorching temperatures . in times of scarcity , this is the would-be refugees who are probably among the first to feel the effects . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked through sectarian violence and extreme civil war , the country does not have a functioning government to manage its water resources . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been slashed to a bare minimum , a decision that affects millions of people who are already maintaining scorching levels .
first , jgbs ’s volume has soared relative to japanese household assets . and , reflecting aging of japanese society , the household saving rate alone will decline dramatically , making it difficult for the private sector to finance the annual budget deficits . at that point , government debts will no longer be backed by taxpayers ’ assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will exceed the jgbs in roughly 3-5 years . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will spur demand through fiscal expenditure , as pension and health-care costs rise .
much has been done recently in yugoslavia , much of this surprising peace . the peaceful vote in montenegro over the past weekend may presage a conflict and a difficult decision on independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle these matters by talking rather than fighting one another . after some procrastination and initial failed efforts , milosevic was brought under house arrest , with no bloodshed , though not without danger . these are great steps forward , showing that , despite brainwashing and complicity of many serbs in the milosevic regime ’s crimes , democracy , and open society have the potential to take root in what remains yugoslavia . one crucial decision facing serbia and its new authorities is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
this is not to say that the ecb ’s president should pick fights back whenever he can . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible . as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , rises , its president must not be shy in criticizing europe ’s politicians and , when necessary , publicly , name and shame . a good central banker must be able to say that no politicians can .
it took until last summer to recognize – and even to a modest degree – that such aid can be used to support the economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals . europe ’s ultimate flaw was a set of disregard for equitable burden-sharing . greece could , in principle , count on massive amounts of regional development aid from the european union ’s budget , underutilized , owing to a lack of local co-financing .
brussels – the aftermath of europe ’s debt crisis is all too present in the european union throughout this period , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding the important decisions taken over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do even more to tackle the challenges confronting the eurozone . joint financial backstops have been put in place by the ecb . reform and consolidation measures are being implemented across the eu . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand .
yet the financial sector has , in previous eras , proved that it can operate as a public good by made up of a trustworthy , efficient service . yet the rise of interactive social networking has made financial innovation more bottom-up . in the future , client-services and transaction-governance systems have received more consumer input more often , in order to shape the product design interactively . the prevailing strategies in the financial sector are driving excessive competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often ruining trust with customers for the sake of taking short-term gains . by using cellphones , millions of banks ’ customers can offer instant feedback on which the products and services they like or disenjoy .
this sentiment is bolstered when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . today , ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not simply a consequence of a anti-empires revolt : it is also a anti-globalization revolt . there is widespread opposition to the notion that the chief function of modern-day states is to lay their peoples in a worldwide market dominated by efficiency imperatives and cheapness , heedless of damage to non-economic pursuits . this feeling is bolstered when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . the way forward lies in the democratic style of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for the purpose of statehood while respecting local and regional cultures .
still , one is right to wonder whether the american way of life will endure the twenty-first century , namely that it will survive in america or behave elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington was seen by many as a lot as chinese realize the departure of the torch . when there is any merit to the underscoring , it is therefore the periodic cohabitation of a boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass is always simultaneously roughly full and half full . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to press that americans have never had so good . pessimists have , for a long time , said this .
in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily make a difference between the two cities . london was bursting at its dynamism and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence has recovered from britain through social and political upheaval , of terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . but , even as these uncertainties play out , the two countries kowtow to a sort of zero-sum transfer of emotions that is impossible to ignore . paris , though undeniably fairer , was at risk of becoming another rome , a captive prisoner of its past glory , at best a post for visiting but no place on the table .
such speculative investments can augment the trend further , pushing futures prices further away from market-equilibrium , especially as many investors follow suit , or from those who are investing enough funds to leverage the market . in fact , empirical evidence yields no plausible answer where hypothesis is sound . they have become key players in the marketplace , holding roughly 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . besides investing huge amounts of money , they hold long-dated futures contracts that might make them less likely to react to changes in market fundamentals . the index funds are a good example of such powerful investors .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the world ’s safety while undermining american values . president bush , in 2000 , ran a platform promise of a “ humble ” foreign policy . i was never engaged strongly in partisan politics , but these are not normal times . for opposing it , i demonize the bush campaign for the first time . if he re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the us-led invasion of iraq – would be endorsed , and the world would have to live with the consequences .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions , but also social institutions that provided shape their lives . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the succession wars that followed the annihilated large sections of serbia ’s traditional education and vocational education systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to a region affected by the devastation of war and widespread desperation of social displacement . the balkan stability pact ’s 1999 balkan stability pact and massive international support have helped rebuild local education , while the development of innovative vocational education and training systems that are supposed to boost long-term employment . the results of many projects in these countries are encouraging , with the current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed young and unemployed .
thus , two significant steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who has shown their understanding of the challenges they face ; and another by their new president , who assembled the country ’s best team available to undertake an enormously difficult program . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake up to only someone who is sleepwalking , not someone who pretend to be sleeping . ” there can be no road from the middle east ’s agony without the engagement , devotion , and determination of any party . whether iran ’s ’s ’s international interlocutors are acting on the significance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , rather than of ignorance . in the middle east , so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran is where it behaves like a regionally significant state , rather than a destabilizing shi’a movement whose ambitions exceed what international law permits – it would be in everyone ’s interest .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and the stock market in free-fall , this may at first glance seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and inject environmental investments into the country ’s inefficient electricity grid . but this would be a devastating mistake of an immediate , just like rural , proportions . far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-stretched global economy , ecological investment is precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get affordable books flowing , and help in powering economies ’ health . in the past , environmental concerns were viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a point grasped by some but by no means all of the economic architects . a big slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package in the united states includes a surge in renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” millions of homes , and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid .
for morale , we need a social compact that finds a purpose for everyone , a way to demonstrate oneself to be a part of society by turning oneself into some sort of workers . we might perhaps all be happy working fewer hours if the pace reflected a gradual process of societal progress . but we are not lucky with the unemployment that results from a sudden fiscal crisis . that is one reason why sudden austerity in the us can not be a morale builder at all . and , for that reason , the us needs a fiscal stimulus – ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises its taxes and spends equally .
that us federal law , enacted in june 2016 , has also established an oversight council , with the fiscal decision-making authority for america ’s commonwealth . but so far , many key decisions have been made , such as how much overall debt relief will be provided , and how the “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of different kinds of bonds . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future gdp growth , puerto rico ’s future rate of growth affects how much debt restructuring it needs . these decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can pay to its creditors . the restructuring process started on may 3 when the board filed a petition in a federal court .
with goodwill on all sides , the real perks can materialize from building this informal grouping , because it is a gateway for vast markets in southeast and northeast asia . an economic bonus of such an effort for the whole region would come from opening the flow of straight flights and shipping through the taiwan strait . the european union is even more instructive , with centuries of warfare , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired rather than deterred , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration . due to historic suspicions among china , japan , the us , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights , is the world ’s final remaining regional bloc , which still lacks an inter-governmental organization of the likes of asean . ceagpol could even become the building blocks for a northeastern asian version of asean – the “ association of northeast asian nations . ”
even in europe and the united states , upper-middle-class officials typically earn far fewer money than individuals with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private sector . many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government staff members . among other things , we suggested that staff in vulnerable and important posts receive higher paid , instead of comparable workers get to the private sector . across peoples , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honorable , yet low paid does attract it to the government service of some of the rotten apples who are ready to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest officials may be disillusioned , and they surrender to the many temptations to use illicit means , so as to raise their incomes to levels that they find more convenient to accountability and training .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea have once again jeopardized global security and dominated headlines . but the current rules-based international system , one of which has taken decades in the making , remains most seriously threatened by syria ’s civil war . not only are millions of lives at jeopardy ; the lack of a global human-rights framework and humanitarian law stands trial as well . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities last month , people all over the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of “ our government ” with syria ’s ” campaign . now , those risks are at risk of overshadowing the crisis in ukraine , with a confrontation at the un security council threatening to subordinate syria under the pecking order of international problems .
that , too , is true , for the fiscal parameters of its own accord . to be sure , there is the additional feature that many higher-level education institutions around the world have an endowment that they can use to rebalance inequities . it will take time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is certainly right : universities must be set free . both public and private donations are combined in a variety of ways .
but , rather than picking the facts and stories to fit a certain grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to match across all areas of human existence to see if the world actually does better or worse . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have sought to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . using the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives to bad health and illiteracy to the devastation of wetlands and intensifying hurricane damage from global warming , economists are revealing just how much every problem costs every issue . through ten areas – including health , education , education , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all have answered the same question : what accounted for each year ’s relative costs of this problem in each year , from 1900 to 2013 , through their predictions , to 2050 . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it pales in comparison with the cumulative resources available to fix it .
trade is the transmission belt through which supply adjusts to demand . it enables the fed to walk from lands far to petty land . clearly , investment in food production needs to increase in the medium and long term . but there is a policy prescription currently available to leaders who could help to remove the supply-side obstacles : more trade . this proposal may puzzle some , but the rationale is straightforward and irreversible .
trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the quagmire toward the us has grown broader and deeper . with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform , it risks being able to engulf the american economy . but the republican candidates ’ proposed tax reform is a larger gift to corporations , and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . it avoids necessary reforms and would leave the country with le pen in the form of debts ; the repercussions – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and a yawning inequality – would take decades to undo the reforms .
it is common for people to update their world ’s views with what they have last seen ; if what they last see is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . yet finance can fail in many ways ; the lehman collapse is just one . if there is even a sense of right , a battling regulatory fatigue to force finance a safer will soon turn into the regulatory confidence that the latest war has now won . the fed ’s 2008 imf transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world . in a strong economy , funding will seem stronger , and the current regulation will seem like effective .
rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of any of the steps he takes to change his detractors ’ mind . but , with the psychotic label already affixed into making their files , whichever they were assumed was a symptom of their insanity . even if it stops taking over ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best , he is viewed as being “ “ viewed in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they took to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and this time to make diagnoses far more incomparably and rigorously . at best , they would be proclaimed as “ in remission . ”
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees need to confront , where they are await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health care for the list . it is a challenge that demands closer attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors – but also from engineers who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help improve the quality and affordability of health care worldwide , by develop faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering health services . as a result , those contributions are highly pertinent to refugees .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected ever-higher barriers to employing knowledge , often compounding the gap between the social returns to innovation and the private return to growth . indeed , the current ip regime is unsustainable . the widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protections is also historically unprecedented . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped that the regime explicitly put the latter first , reflected their resistance to provisions recognizing the intellectual-property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . even among the pre-industrializers , ip protection came very belatedly , and often intentionally eschewed to allow for quicker industrialization and growth .
throughout this period , the bundesbank was selling dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( on par with 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . during this era , the dollar strongly appreciated against the major currencies , and by 1985 was overvalued by almost every measure . despite its advent of the european central bank , that asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb has repeatedly attempted to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive intervention in the foreign exchange market , the fed intervened only once . that has upended america ’s interest in maintaining its strong dollar . thus , long as these interests diverge , we should expect little foreign-exchange policy coordination between the two central banks .
madrid – in upcoming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , and the uk – will participate both on a case-by-case basis and as eu members , whose president , furthermore , attends the eu as a whole – whose president attends the eu as a whole . regardless of whether such meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be a supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and an international economic policy . the main argument in favor of such a shift is that a joint eu membership would increase europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis america . but should n’t the eu have only a single high representative ? after all , a key reason for european integration in the former eu was precisely to give an increased voice to europe in the international arena .
the idea behind a slippery slope is that , if you do x that is acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . on a logical slippery slope , you slide to the bottom and embrace a morally unacceptable , because there is no way to differentiate it from an permissible practice . therapeutic cloning is conceptually apparent from reproductive cloning . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even if the two are conceptually different , only because the existence of one creates a social climate receptive to others . indeed , two types of slippery slopes – that is , logical and sociological – exist .
a central bank is trying to hold the exchange rate , but eventually it is being forced to let the currency float . the result is a currency collapse and a wave of imf bankruptcies . directly related to the global financial crisis of many decades , the us economy confronts its most severe economic slump . a sudden start in the cycle of devaluation in a nearby country reveals just how vulnerable an economy is to lose international confidence . abruptly , the foreign lenders step in to right up to a short-term credit line .
likewise , rearguard efforts to demonstrate that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that american and britons wrong , combined with demands for `` proof '' that iraqi possessed weapons of mass destruction , are patently unconstructive , and generated solely by mutual irritation . nevertheless , it is important to recognize why america is undertaking them , and in responding to the central problem of today 's us-led international order . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and positions in the current permanent members , such actions actually produced the opposite effect . if russia and other countries that opposed america 's iraq policy in the security council were genuinely keen to convince the american people not to attack iraq and to defend international law , it was a naive policy doomed to failure . indeed , the world might not support the u.s. in its unilateral attempt to become world university policeman in particular because they may well bring even more instability .
the change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus that was acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , that appears likely to be coming about only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for syrian president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal . some 8,000 refugees a day – the advanced day volkerwanderung – enter germany , partly owing to harsh terms back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them in . the call for care about , employing , and integrating such numbers will soon run against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . what is clear is that public policy can fail when it focuses on the consequences , rather than on the causes – of the refugee crisis .
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major us military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was put to the test of israel ’s integration with the us on ballistic missile defenses . both sides appear eager to expand the scope of their partnership with the us , with the aim of reaching a high level of us interoperability . israel has also joined nato ’s system of naval control in the mediterranean , contributing to operation an active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . it has been a significant contributions , saying the evolution of a planned nato “ missile shield ” for europe . american sources have described the drill as “ the most complete air-missile defense system the us has ever done anywhere in the world . ”
even if all girls ultimately do return home , nothing will ever become the same once again as they or their families . it is hard to see how the girls could ever return home safely . launching any military rescue operation would be highly risky , at least for now . it is believed that the girls were split into separate groups , so that any attempt to save one group would imperil the others . despite talk about a government negotiating an agreement with captors , that option , too , would be fraying at the risk .
three years later , greece is in dire need of a new restructuring . its absence on the rule of law for debt restructuring delayed fresh beginning , and can lead to chaos . the country played by the “ “ rules ” of financial markets , and managed to finalize the reform process rapidly ; but agreement has been a poor one and failed to help the economy recover . across-the-board sanctions lead to an negative-sum game , in which the borrower can not recover , and its creditors do not benefit from the larger repayment capacity that the recovery will entail . distressed debtors need a freighted start .
we would expect to see many illnesses between staff and their patients in hospitals , where victims are treated and soon someone ( perhaps even non-ill ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , damascus , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . history suggests that were we to make these drugs accessible to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , they would often eventually be granted improperly anyway , such as in suboptimal doses , in ways that foster viral resistance and only intensify a pandemic . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be for wealthy countries to devote resources to developing countries primarily to surveillance . anti-flu drugs of tamiflu and bethlehem are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply .
the best solution is to make western labor markets flexible by opening up a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . when workfare substituted for the welfare state , wages would become more flexible , allowing eu labor markets to absorb immigrants more efficiently . but even with such measures , welfare benefits may artificially increase incentives to migrate . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions . if migrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more will be lured into coming than is needed , with marginal migrants creating eu welfare losses equal to that of the benefits .
recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of continued resistance to israeli rule . palestinian authority leading the west bank is fearful that a popular , nonviolent intifada might swiftly turn a violent victory . but , with their government unable to do anything about spreading israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . palestinian president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his opposition to such a strategy . if so , israel may use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly built institutions .
the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis – characterized by sluggish gdp growth and declining import demand in the west – makes reform all the more urgent . a developing economy can slow prematurely when external factors change the conditions that support growth . to avoid such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s growth model to existing conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the us and europe and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . a developing economy can slow prematurely when external factors change the conditions that promote growth . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and declining import demand in the west , makes reform all the more urgent .
but , after nine years of largely conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop in and implement his agenda . to succeed , moon will need to revise the carefully the efficacy and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid missing out on some of the most visible pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the core problem that to be considered is the longstanding financial burden that such large-scale hiring could generate . indeed , with his center-right democratic party retaining only 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will need to win support from the centrist parties and even the conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public support from the top of his first term .
the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding human behavior are embryonic ; but there is no “ hyperbole ” to call the problem an epidemic . according to centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children between six and 11 in the us are not just overweight or obese . commercial tv programs targeting children are replete with advertising for processed foods of dubious value to human health . and , for any celebrity who donates the time to fight obesity , there are dozens of who accept large payments to make hawk products like ultra-sugary drinks , which are arguably our generation ’s tobacco . it is difficult for lack of profits to compete with productivity-enhancing production values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial .
yet america today appears to be on a back foot , economically and militarily . new powers like china and india are rising , not rising , mixing assertiveness with a emphasis on their continued “ development ” status . so , no one is in charge , either . europe , embraced by shared sovereignty , struggles to resolve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s nation-states and people are becoming more intertwined than ever , owing to ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems streaming steadily across borders .
undoubtedly , recovery in the uk has begun more slowly than elsewhere in the g7 economies , with the exception of italy . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will have grown faster over the next four years , with the uk follow through on the lead . but there is also no question that the uk ’s rebound picked up fast after 2012 . last year , its gdp growth rate was the highest in the g-7 . and per capita gdp surely must be preferable to aggregate gdp .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . in 1802 , the american former president of the late 1980 ’s , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter of which rests exclusively between man & his own god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut baptists who feared for their religious liberty , he highlighted the first amendment of the establishment clause and the liberal exercise clause constructed “ the wall of the separation between the church & state .
it demands intense diplomatic engagement and appeals to relationships that have built and maintained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners . but , by overcoming the differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing us support for a world order that is grounded in collective solutions to common problems . we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done . i spoke personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all subscribe that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the fragility of west africa and halt ebola . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work .
consider the example of an american enterprise subsidiary that earns profits in iran . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax rate at ireland at an all-time low of 12 % . it then frees to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , through financial securities or operating businesses anywhere in the world , except america . if a foreign subsidiary ’s ’s parent company brings those after-tax profits back to the us to spend or distribute their shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its previous pretax irish profits , with a credit for the 12 % that it already has . due to this 23 % penalty on repatriation , american firms generally choose not to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but the shift to a carbon-neutrality economy also offers far-reaching opportunities . the problem ignores national borders , and therefore calls for collective global action . with the right strategy in place , europe can spur its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to shield european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in china and elsewhere . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe ” assets , ” europeans can ensure greater economic independence from other powers , beginning with the establishment of the euro as a global currency . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has tools for mobilizing massive capital flight for investments in infrastructure , research , and development , as well as other core areas .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . partly in its response to the soviet collapse , india embraced japanese-style capitalism , generating spectacular economic progress . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west in terms of it with increasing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its very essence – a young country , and that is also an ancient civilization . fifty years ago , trying to read about india in the west , you mostly would have found books about an spirituality . and , like the us economy , india ’s own self-confidence has regressed .
a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she has called for a stronger europe . and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend us interests . what the us will be a power vacuum , marked by disorder . merkel knows that if america ’s sacrifices at the summit of the international order are to be made for domestic political reasons , there will be no substitute for a new front in power , or a new global order has emerge .
the bottom line is that questions like “ are we creating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . it is not merely a mechanism by which to help prevent its strategic mistakes . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , thinking that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses control of the country . the upshot is that whenever trouble getting out of hand , a turnaround comes too late , and a dramatic pattern .
indeed , a number of interesting practical moves in that direction are underway , though not all is pursuing the original regional course set by its founders . for example , the economic community of the west african states ( ecowas ) has demonstrated unexpectedly both the willingness and the capacity to mount a fight force to engage in regional conflicts such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly but perhaps more important in the long term , ecowas laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of the single currency now a supposedly objective . at the same time , east african countries are pushing their integration projects ahead , and appear to have learned from past failures in the region that were the result of hastily constructed , inappropriate , and overly ambitious structures . in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects , of which transport infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme .
with private-sector demand stalling , the us employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already hitting . so , where is this demand-driven increase in growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms to go bankrupt than in fostering a higher rate of employment . unless any future us government is bold enough to unwind the pact with abandon , its only alternative will be tax increases that would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high .
new york – in his striking account of iranian catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests have been tempted to contrive sexual activism with their children . it was because of “ new and serious ” challenges to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . and iran is not the only place where its social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . fast-paced socioeconomic change has occurred , often adversely affected people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . as we now know , child abuse by catholic clerics has arisen not only in iran , but also in many other countries , something the pope preferred not to dwell upon .
egypt ’s approach toward sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect toward the peninsula . historically , it has deployed just 70-80 % of its 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in zones a. and the military has never established a regional command in sinai preferring to permit units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s ’s legal advisor , mohamed morsi , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . last august , israelis permitted an additional seven battalions and 20 tank tanks in zones c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought the full force of additional troops , and did not even bother to transport their tanks across the suez canal . such sabanrattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular .
not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate as well . their home page shows a smiling young manager based in chile , and a company pushes to enlist women in palestinian territories not for ideological reasons but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ 30 percent of women ” in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” zaleski explains but often can not get a job commensurate with his training for cultural reasons . with powertofly ’s technological capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman may rise to the top ranks of an american society , even as local laws prohibit her government ’s ability to manage the car . the founders do not rule out , ultimately , widening , to tackle this needed .
the first reason for hope is that statesmanship harks back to europe , even when in homeopathic doses . it is too soon to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . but , in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a difference . so , here are ten good reasons for believing in europe , with ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts and worried investors alike that it is high premature to bury europe and the eu completely . to be sure , no one elected monti , and his stature remains fragile and already challenged , but there is a positive consensus that has enabled him to launch long-overdue structural reforms .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
rising trade globalization , too , has not helped in this regard . children whose families can not provide a decent start in their life deserve much help . but america did not provide it , a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of gender unemployment for parents have a profound , enduring negative impact on their children . many of these choices have proved badly , largely owing to the use of information technology ( by computers and how they are used ) to eliminate many middle-class jobs .
nonetheless , governments need to understand the barriers to investment : regulatory failure ; weak enablers , including the provision of financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technologies . and they need to undertake rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth . this is happening – at the level of execution – that governments often perform badly . all too often , they spend their money supporting private-sector projects that fail to deliver a positive real return to the broader economy . at the same time , action to spur private-public investment in local services and transportation – the two large sectors – should be considered as well .
here is where the link between food and climate change comes in : as people continue to sink from poverty , as many of them are increasingly demanding more meat and dairy . our animals consume more food than they produce ; we consume more food than they produce , so they consume fewer food items . and clearing land for grazing releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate . we have grave implications for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane , for example .
having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have worked for many years with international organizations to direct these competing priorities , as i oversaw the economics revitalization of my own post-conflict state . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency on which i am currently researching , has a far more expansionary mandate . but it is all these institutions that share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . for starters , they must rebalance the battle against extreme poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to education , or tackle endemic corruption . these organizations ’ leaders must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources .
berlin – europe ’s established left confronts the threat of extinction . many factors have underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . in less than two years , the continent ’s ’s ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , the left ’s collapse could have far-reaching consequences , beyond the narrow interests of the party . but one of the most important reasons is barely as grim as one might be straightforward : europe ’s voters are becoming increasingly opposed to immigration , fearing the left ’s limits .
it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower cost involved in acquiring shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing popular unrest in the arab world . ultimately , it would enhance america ’s relative vulnerability of its principal strategic rival , china , which is becoming an increasingly interdependent world of middle eastern energy supplies . america ’s emergence as an energy self-sufficient near the us in 2020 is expected to become an oil exporter by 2030 . for the us , such a scenario would grant america three enormous clout .
the gulf between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become starkly apparent . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide in terms of income and other indicators among some affluent cities that benefit from globalization , as well as the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did any national leader enact a tax cut based on where one lives . traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than simply via media filters and tank pollsters . as a result , 1 % of france ’s ’s ’s gdp now expands first to the poorest parts of the country .
whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it is clear that the us could save more lives , reducing more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than the us can do by spending it in france . suppose that we ’re saving lives for those who would live 60 more years , about the $ 9,000 years on annual benefits equal to save about 150 lives per year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but one really important one has to ask now how much many lives € 1 billion could be saved . let ’s suppose that the experiences of visiting or recalling notre dame do get people about twice as lucky as they would otherwise end that the time period , which implies , in effect , an extra hour spent in notre dame or , in recalling one of her visits , is as good as extending someone ’s life to an hour . in short , how many lives would be that worth ? suppose that we ’re saving the lives of those who could live 60 more years , an estimated 9,000 years of annual benefit is equivalent to save about 150 lives per year .
indeed , some are seeing germany ’s renewed commitment to cut its carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 to accomplish their goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as battering ram against the schwarze null . in the us , such a package would call a green new deal . but getting serious about co2 emissions , and perhaps other environmental goals , will not mean larger budget deficits . in fact , spending on priorities like that of the energy sector and the environment can be helpful . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) of spending action measures to cut emissions .
in the real world , opening up is not a simple matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . it demands a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources as well . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , may not be targeted at any country with a crucial level of developmental objectives – higher growth , improved governance , a industrial and technological capability , poverty alleviation – and on occasion divert attention from them on the part of the moment . any academic who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risk-banishment , so let me be unequivocal : i do not question the standard narrative of gains-from-trade theory , but the extravagant , unproved claims made about the consequences of openness . for the latter isaf endangers broad public acceptance of a true article , because it unleashes expectations unlikely to fulfill them .
to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , sea must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . that means they have to be run by well regulated , impartial professionals . but , as the examples cited above detail , the seas are not fulfilling their goal reliably . that is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct the seas at the behest of project developers – an approach that , as the activists have highlighted repeatedly , is grossly unethical . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only the most superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that harmful projects are often approved , despite failing to comply with broadly agreed green development guidelines .
prior to the crisis , regulators ’ attention was focused mainly on removing trade barriers , and on generally favored measures that had made markets more complete by encouraging faster , cheaper trading with a broader variety of financial claims . that is no longer the case , either . on the contrary , nowadays , many are questioning the premise that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . but there are signs that such assumptions are now about to be challenged . maybe such ease and efficiency , moreover , fuel market instability and serve middles ’ interests than their clients ?
xinhua has announced that local officials in charge of allowing violence to be prosecuted . and xinhua has wasted no time in arguing that the abuses were confined to a few towns . in fact , central authorities apparently felt an immediate need for encouraging criticism of its controversial population-controlled efforts . nonetheless , central-government authorities have done little to stave off intimidation of linyi villagers . following strenuous international protests over chen ’s kidnapping , the fpc chose to do so .
overreaction and herding behavior by market participants might trigger a abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a possible move to reduce its purchases of long-term asset ( so-called quantitative easing ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to tumble this summer . they are also undermining asian economies ’ need for stronger fiscal safety nets . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because the us ’s failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily in by emerging asian economies . tighter american monetary policy could intensify global credit shortages , thereby intensifying upward pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems .
this partly explains enduring popular loyalty to rulers such as joseph stalin . for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies powers that control everything that matters in life ; they back him , no matter how much policies he implements , for which there is no alternative otherwise . but now the delusional and ignorant eager to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not roughly the outcome of next year ’s us presidential election ; it has already been fixed . with a presidential term now stretching back to an age of six years , we can expect encore lasting up to 12 years longer than putin ’s original performance .
the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly fast . another major shortcoming was that viktor yushchenko ’s leader , the leader of the orange revolution , turned out to be a feckless , irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world for a few months to celebrate his victory , ignored the mayhem back home . he then started vetoing virtually any decisions by the us government , triggering a political deadlock , and , toward the end of his presidency , tacitly combined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to her credit , voted against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his cabinet ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) were defectors from the old regime .
inefficiencies were masked by generous subsidies from the national treasury , as well as a mixture of vested interests , socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , business associations , and monopolies maintained it beyond political criticism . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to hone public utilities as a vehicle for private gratification , ceding birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . an indian-style socialism was an emerging compound of nationalism and idealism . it illustrates the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands – and not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from the production and sale of such goods and services , but rather in the disinterested hands of the state , father , and mother to all indians . given this mindset , performance was not an adequate criterion for judging the utility of the public sector .
with the ad-driven business model ’s limits becoming increasingly apparent , a growing number of media leaders – close to one-third , according to the reuters institute – believe that ai will play a central role in rooting out the media . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is just as noble a cause as , say , cancer ’s research . technology on its own can not spur democracy , help to answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by advancing accountability . for organizations devoid of clout – and digital income – of the time , a people-oriented approach may also be needed to ensure that investment is secure . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to unlock their hearts and boards will require human connections and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software .
to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible , clearly defined economic program , with the democrats forced to concede being a junior partner of its untested insurgent drive . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s fairly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to encourage the m5s and the league party to form a grand coalition that he has called the eu ’s “ ultimate dream , ” because doing so would crack the eu . a pro-eu italy governed by an m5s-democrat coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice for the eu vis-à-vis america , russia , and spain ; and implement a green , innovation-based strategy . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . a possible key to boosting trust would be for the democrats to hold a critical finance ministry , while m5s appoints the prime minister .
my statements have also been motivated by problems of how capital punishment is enforced in india . and , indeed , the country ’s last three drains stemmed from terrorist offenses that have both threatened or seized large numbers of lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains to be seen in many cases of subjective . indeed , whether capital punishment is meted out depends on a multitude of variables , beginning with judicial and social-preoccupations . the us supreme court has proclaimed that the death penalty must be applied only in “ rarest of rare ” cases .
the long-run effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . during the latest tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , us households ’ after-tax interest income rose by 29 % . while this time , the gains presumably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scope of the fed ’s tightening , interest payments on saving will shift household income in the right direction : up . and average hourly wages for all employees on private-sector nonfarm payrolls posted an annual rise of 2.5 % in october , the largest since the end of 2009 . as the fed has moved slow to raise interest rates , those middle-class families hold its hard-earned saving rate at the bank will finally begin to realizing some returns on their deposits .
beijing – most western media have characterized the recently concluded 19th national congress of the communist party of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power plays , with president xi jinping entrenching his stature . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage the deftly a major social and economic transformation , whereas increasingly significant improvements to state governance . and , in order to secure china ’s one-party system , he needs to reform state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is , for xi , a prerequisite for progress on economic reform . yet the accumulation of political capital in that case is a means to an end . for xi , that end amounts to a smooth transition into modernity that cements the cpc ’s embrace of its long-term authority and ensures his own legacy as a modern china ’s most important leader .
after all , dire conditions today are the result of staggering corruption and wastage over the past 40 years . but , even with all the difficulty of reducing corruption and inefficiency , which will doubtless plague its real realization , our proposal overstates superior to the status quo . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thereby transform economics and politics in nigeria over the decade to come . another issue is how large the gains should be channeled into income and how remittances can effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward as nigeria . the time to act is now at hand .
the fragility of financial markets can trigger severe economic and social eruptions . the question poses by itself : what should be done to preserve the stability of the financial system ? this can not be answered in the abstract , for each situation is different . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and a dearth of financial disclosure that can not be ignored . financial markets are best understood as a historical process , and history never repeats itself exactly .
indeed , the experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaping detection and leading to a second outbreak , holds out as warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control over the greater and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , such epidemics may have been entirely eliminated in the months ahead . but it is , at least as probable as that some transmission will persist , or that the virus eventually reestablishes itself into animal populations . health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that a renewed control effort will be required if sars resurges . screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented significant epidemics elsewhere .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a simultaneous anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for addressing transparency in resource revenues , while needlessly reforming the wheel in that process . so far , the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most powerful vehicles available for achieving a global standards of proof and accountability . let us hope that the new iraqi government does a better job . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if a country of the most significant source of income remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . nor have america and britain used their power in iraq to promote the development of the oil sector .
there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other arab countries combined . syrian , libyan , and yemenite casualties are faceless ; the turkish military lionization of the shi’ably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . this is not to say that israel should be consoled with the macabre arithmetic of taking the carnage . stories of israel focus almost entirely on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington bureau of the pan-arab newspapers , believes that this is because “ muslims are killed muslims or the arab slaughter of an arab group looks more acceptable than israel kills the arabs .
the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by american pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . fueled by concerns about aids , activists around the world have demanded that something be done . even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization delivered neither growth nor stability to many in the developing world . yet , whether fueled by a narrow ideology or a response to demands from special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization in its bilateral trade deals . such provisions have restricted countries from making generic drug treatment , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in the developing world .
meanwhile , in the meantime , governments will collaborate on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impact of a global maritime trading system . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . now that the cap is coming into force will benefit us rapidly , reap the extraordinary effects of a new , permanent global health dividend . indeed , we may expect to see the data in the coming years indicating the reduced health-care costs and improved educational outcomes from around the world . such efforts are key to achieving the goals outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement .
cambridge – the united states is notoriously bad for its capacity to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world , therefore , might be interested in the rote learning of the four tricks that america ’s policymakers commonly use when promising to cut taxes while incurring budget deficits . these are hard promises to keep , for the simple reason that the us budget deficit equals government expenditure minus fiscal revenues . but , with every four tricks , every couple of tricks has been refined over three decades . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , ” the laffer hypothesis , and “ starve the fog ” scenario .
new york – the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than let them collapse and damage the economy . so which is this : are banks still in danger ? or is it that post-crisis regulatory reform has been done its job ? second , and in some cases , getting “ too-big-to-fail ” help the big banks grow even bigger , because lenders and trading partners prefer working with banks that have an implicit government guarantee .
while it is not yet possible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby enhancing its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration that offers further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries demand it . participating in chicago will bring major differences across these issues , and the results might be no ideal . but reinventing nato is a long process , and will necessarily emerge in small steps . the alliance ’s main goal must be to ensure that it advances .
in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the hydra-headed policies of the hydra-headed policies that privatized state companies in the 1990s only to re-nationalization them later . argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training is often described in the international press as the “ center-right ” campaign . but that label is not quite as usual , either . macri is best described as an “ liberal ” in a europe sense . moreover , “ center-right ” often means “ conservative , ” ” ” ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo .
women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , while the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer is about 55 % for women with the brca1 mutations and about 25 % for brca2 women . most recently , massive studies analyzing single nucleotide effects in genomic dna , the so-called lone nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified a so-called modifier snp that can decline or increase its individual lifetime of lifetime lifetime risk . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of breast cancers that cluster in families coming from the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – the genetic alterations that are present from birth in every body cell and can be transmitted to the offspring . elevated rates of breast cancer risk are also known to several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that further links childhood onset of multiple malignancies including the soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases , familial breast cancer has continued to
xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it shifts china away from labor-intensive , capital-intensive economic growth toward a model that is based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to lead global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second difficulty stems from china ’s incomplete transformation on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , the american promptly and explicitly dominated the globe . china , in seeking to take the lead on the next stage of economic globalization , enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean an estimated 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather-related patterns . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on our understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs implied by inaction . costa rica prides itself on its global leadership role by putting this approach into practice . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most significant assets . as a result , we are one of the few countries now poised to exceed our pledges under the paris climate agreement .
but there is a major impediment to easing tensions : last year the proposed $ 6.5 billion sale by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and in 330 patriot missiles . china-us talks on defense cooperation have earlier stalled as a result of such arms negotiations . there is a real hope now that the round of talks along these lines can succeed . promoting china ’s traditional civilization , with its strengthened spiritual ties , is promoting what china does . they have since been restarted , an olive branch sent to the obama administration by china ’s government .
in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called ceu law , ” which the university alleged was its intention to force it out of the eu . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could say “ that i have had its support in washington , dc . ” now , it is time to win some support in brussels . and ignatieff has received some support , at least initially . i have support in berlin , with backing in budapest [ … ] i gained support in munich .
for example , a majority of chinese doctors and patients have long considered acupuncture as effective treatments for stroke , using it to improve the motor , express speaking , and other roles that have been destroyed . more recently , however , the systematic scientific study of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatments has begun . almost all trials for acupuncture as a stroke for stroke have proved positive . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese physicians use acupuncture routinely treat stroke effects , compared to 63 % of physicians surveyed believe that they are effective . some 36 % of chinese doctors believe the effectiveness of acupuncture remains precarious , perhaps because science from it remains so new .
indeed , declining labor force may explain why the phillips curve no longer appears to hold true . but , even more important , it could be precisely the reason that measured productivity growth remains persistently weak . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their own inflation target . economists have also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidities , a 1960-70s artifact that organized labor was far stronger . clearly , the idea that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies .
so ensuring that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires educational opportunities for all . at the same time , a modern economy requires risk-taking . but there need not be a trade-off between the level of inequality and growth . governments can enhance growth by increasing inclusiveness . a country ’s most precious resource , it is its people , is its people .
consent should not be snatched away , as a train ticket held to the conductor for the conductor . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she may choose to relinquish , when presented with a sufficiently compelling case . this can lead patients to consent in order to act that they do not understand – or want . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting a patient – as though something has been done to a patient , like drawing blood or administering the injection : the “ dr. smith , please take the consent of lord jones . ” the problem is compounded when consent gets just hours before a major operation , and months after a recent consultation with a surgeon .
so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged firms from spending power sources on training employees , who might soon decide to join a competitor . as talent shortages have loom , however , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward greater investments in professional development . those without in-demand skills struggle , making a lot of sense at least disposable . in fact , those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , better equipped to manage their own careers and to command the higher-return salaries . the employers that deliver learning opportunities will become a destination for the talents of all .
similar to traditional military-command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and can respond swiftly to a broad array of attacks . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , diminishing the possibility of failure , and mitigating the effects of an incursion . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about networks of computers fighting one another , while humans stand by . it would portray the wider idea of the “ singularity , ” ” a hypothetical turning point as the artificial surrenders of human beings . fortunately for such reason , life remains far removed from imitation .
it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure dfft and turn the data into public goods for researchers worldwide . the g20 summit in osaka is coming on the dawn of a new era , known as reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in june . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the member of the “ science20 ” association of the g20 countries , formed by the g20 ’s national science academies . to reduce threats to subnational ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the last two sets of advice urge the “ establishment ” of an improved waste-management system that ensures open access by scientists globally , ” and “ sharing information ” through research activities undertaken under extensive and multinational collaborative efforts to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era , reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in japan .
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , the governments of bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and shifted talent , investment , and firms from around the world . to be sure , today , ’s cities face many challenges . the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously remarked that our cities are the true engines of national prosperity . and city services are often more visible to citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during , during , say , a traffic accident or a natural disaster . the growth of cities through innovation , trade , and exchange .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas laproperly , the world ’s author is flat-lining , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trading practices . technology sovereignty would overtake the us in terms of trade and exchange , and the nationality of us corporations – even major multinational corporations – would become only as relevant as their us business model . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought solely by trump and his own neo-nationalist agenda . the danger is not just that economic rivalries , protectionism , and trade restrictions would threaten global prosperity ; it is that such developments also raise the risk of a major political confrontation . if this is where the previous ideological high level of globalization now stands , china is facing down against not only trump ’s america but liberal america as well .
on the international stage , the big states are trying to make international rules , often building their own domestic legitimacy on their claim to shape the larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers refer to “ harnessing ” globalization . rather than accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to change the rules – in their favor . small states of nervousness and fear began to rise in roughly the year 2000 . new political realities emphasized the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy resources in developing countries , and russia ’s assertiveness on domestic politics . on small-state settings , imposing a dense web of controls is likely to lead to the loss of mobile factors of production , while harder for labor or capital to escape .
a law restricting transport strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to scrap the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . instead of repealing the law , overtime work has been forced to become easy and relatively inexpensive . that has opens the way for more and deeper reform . democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy . at the same time , he is preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 .
the banks are arguing that more efficient regulation will stifle credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . they have undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and they are likely to hamper efforts to put europe ’s economy on a sounder footing . with the exception of the united kingdom , the more extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it did in the us ; on still , the challenge of implementing eurozone countries ’ financial reforms is actually harder to achieve . in the us , governments in both domestic and western countries are treating home banks as important buyers of their sovereign debt . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have resisted raising capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that doing so is an indispensable part of effective re-regulation .
in order to consolidate support , thatcher would pass head-to-head with her carefully selected foes , from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute recently reported in brussels , “ bannon wants to radicalize ” anti-trump liberals into battling for causes that antagonize them from mainstream america . this reflects a fundamental clash between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aimed to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . but , however different the ideas may be , the tactics are the same . each time , at least , trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , forging trump their core support base .
the two weeks since taiwan ’s contested presidential election on march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the history of the country – have tested this truism almost to a breaking point . while canvassing for the votes in his hometown of southern taiwan on the eve of the election , president chen and vice president annette lu has both been hurt by the assassin ’s bullet trains . sympathy that secured gave taiwan ’s president viktor taiwan ’s razor-thin margin of the victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party candidate and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . the young democracies can be brutal : their voters are often as unforging as their political opponents . taiwan ’s young democracy must now cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election has thrust upon it .
even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his lavish promises , made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer . but raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and its longstanding legacy . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technology and business strategy can not be disgally decreed from the summit . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still scores little better than mexico .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance of becoming his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : the man of the left who is moving toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and may not have been possible under the center-left politicians . both immediately confronted effectively with international financial constraints that opposition politicians can ill afford to ignore . on assuming power , both kim and lula were able to adjust , politically and intellectual , to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms .
though the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongdoers , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslims votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . nonetheless , his decision to run for prime minister is the far cry of his riskiest move , because it will test his own national appeal . indeed , annual state-led economic growth averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati town of ahmedabad was short-listed for the world city prize lee kuan yew . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , his death of over 1,000 people at anti-muslim riots in gujarat in july 2002 . this has not stopped modi from grabbing political risks , starting with his assertion that india needs brew more than temples .
on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist pointed out that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp per year . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit , too . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; instead , it merely discourages initiative . perhaps this can impede private-sector dynamism , but even there , fear of losing control enhances the party ’s role . a chinese businessman told me that xi ’s actual growth was less than half that of his official figure .
meanwhile , both turkey and the united states have mutual interests in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its status in a broader transformation in its neighborhood . but , because turkey builds closer ties with the us , and its rivalry with iran stiffens in terms of both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with a more assertive russia , which is eager to demonstrate itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and to retain its foothold in syria . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey must rethink and recalibrate its regional policies . turkey ’s true strengths are its thriving economy , a secular democratic system , and its capacity to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream .
with nearly two million patients now on anti-retroviral treatment , the annual spread of aids-related deaths has dropped by around 100,000 since 2005 . with nearly two million patients now on anti-retroviral treatment , the annual spread of aids-related deaths has fallen by around 100,000 since 2005 . better integrating treatment plans has been another critical factor . the government aligned its early anti-retroviral treatment programs for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women , in 2008 . such remedies have reduced rates of new infections ( though the overall number of people living with hiv , particularly between 15 and 49 , has continued to rise ) .
but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is conserved to make current and future generations groups 3 to produce new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . these " polar " mammals spend up to seven year hibernating , during which time are essentially imperceptibly disable . a human would lose a third or more bone mass when an immobile for this age . astonishingly , hibernating bear bears lay down his new bone , by producing a loophole that inhibits cells that break down bone and promote those that produce bone and cartilage . consider a polar bear , which has threatened the wildextinction of climate change .
but they need stronger support – not just in nato or in weapons and training , but also from western special forces . there is also a strong argument for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has been attacked , absorbing article 5 of the north atlantic treaty that ensures mutual defense . at the same time , the whole alliance should commit itself to the defeat of terrorism . yet this is not merely europe of struggle or that of the united states . that is about a global order within a stable , prosperous world .
after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe currently finds itself grappling with the question of how much europeans want , how openly and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity to be appropriate . now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates that increasingly encompass an existential question of the european eurozone ’s survival and the whole of the european project . that means that the candidates in next year ’s elections are unlikely simply to turn their attention to domestic issues . that is what the candidates in next year ’s election are unlikely simply to turn their attention to domestic issues . while there will be some , for the first time there , wide debate about europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and its relations with major powers like the united states and russia .
the question was not about how to deregulate quickly , but rather about how to develop the right regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies ’ assumption of perfect markets , perfect information , and a host of different matters , which even the best-performing market economies can not satisfy . after all , it was too little regulation – capital and financial-market liberalization that foisted on east asia by the imf and the us treasury – that led to the 1997 financial crisis . • whereas neo-liberals worry about excessive state rule , a weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not enforce laws and regulations , and can not ensure a secure , sound banking system . indeed , market failure is a reality , but so are government failures .
to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on different groups at different times . any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . importers favor a strong exchange rate ; their exporters favor the soft . to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on different groups at different times . an interest-rate hike pleases , whereas a rate cut is a boon to borrowers .
in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than one might appear . nominal wages can rise while real wages have been stagnant , owing to higher inflation . and even real wage increases at the supra-national level will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows still at a faster pace . so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitive edge in the coming ten or even 20 years . even if real wages rise in some coastal cities , “ excess labor ” could keep the national average flat .
germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the current exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the current exchange rate , we must look at the trade balance . it is now clear that germany ’s net exports would remain very high even if the euro appreciated sharply from its current level . germany ’s exports exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp .
these structural elements were bolstered by developments in the region , reinforcing a sense among israeli voters that they are susceptible to multiple foes : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; isis ’s rise amid failed states in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is always easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . in the weeks leading up to the elections , the public seemed to have grown weary of a prime minister who had long been in office to be corrupted by an extremist army ’s arrogance and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . netanyahu ’s victory was apparently an impressive personal comeback . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , together with scare tactics .
throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best schemes can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experiences have demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production began in 2010 . however , with last year ’s us presidential election , the situation began to deteriorate . at the same time , investment should be gradual , which may mean temporarily storing some of the country ’s petroleum wealth abroad . the following year , the government ’s revenue-administration act distributed the distribution of wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) .
back in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on financial markets ’ lack of transparency . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at covert bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm for more transparency lessened . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and clandestine bank accounts have thrived . but there are now some huge differences between then and now . the vast majority of the developing world has accumulated massive foreign-currency reserves .
in any case , the hardships suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s last prescription – the provision of more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for rampant reform and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the instruments and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . by selectively addressing even the gravest risks , draghi has been able to minimize them . if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them .
so , with sarah palin being escorted to the media limelight , she is becoming the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , depleted factory workers and secretaries . they perceive an underclass that she believes they receives the benefits they are denied to them , and a thriving economy in the developing world siphons out of well-paying blue-collar jobs . think of the appeal of movies like thelma and louise , or of working girl , in which she is a leading character , she is a gutsy , who , trampled on a snooty female alvy league boss , nonetheless manages to end her dream jobs , dream guy , and corner office . while reports are surfacing that palin told an african-american female group that she did n’t need to hire black , working-class white women often understand their own experience with a view of racial hostility . to see a working-class white woman you are arranged to serve a heartbeat from an american president resonates powerfully with them .
china has already delivered on that front , by abandoning a growth model that had successfully driven the country ’s economic development for more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift from a export-oriented model – along with investment-led manufacturing ( through manufactures ) to one guided by private consumption ( through services ) . that change will give china a much better chance of shunning the dreaded japanese-style middle-income trap from which it ensnared most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believed that the recipe of early-stage takeoff growth is enough to achieve developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book the codependency of china and america ’s links them together inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the annual global economic symposium ( ges ) , where efforts are being made to advance concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . at last year ’s summit , central-banking dialogues , which pitted inflation-targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to advance multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary objective . while such solutions have certain merit , they remain insufficient to address the effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors that underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . the crisis has represented a profound systemic failure , involving breakdowns at nearly every level , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives for institutions .
specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a handful of innovators in the global branding , high-technology and creative industries wins big , with the global boom in tech stocks augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail players , while diluting smaller players ’ capacity to compete . piketty ’s framework underscores several drivers of this trend . for starters , by reducing trade and investment barriers , it became a sort of winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically sophisticated actors gained market share through economies of scale . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on the household sector .
but prevention must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceeds the ability of any individual country — and the international community — — to counter such flows . sometimes those outflows may occur through no fault of the country in question , but because of a financial market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . there are no foreign-currency reserves sufficient to meet sudden and massive capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . this phenomenon was all too apparent during the asian crisis , and following russian debt default in august 1998 .
blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because it wants britain to be , because it puts it “ on the heart of europe ” in the first place . like the courtiers who were surrounded by louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . that is a decision virtually independently of prime minister tony blair , and even against his wish . most commentators have tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen because , after all , he is prime minister . the only question now doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet , ” neither before his next election , or simply an “ no . ”
there was some opposition against trump when he failed to condemn clearly the white supremacist protesters in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the alt-right ” rally in august ended with the killing of a counterprotester . the product of trump ’s approach is that america ’s prevailing problems are deteriorating , and tremendous opportunities are lost . trump ’s rejection of high-handed discourse , including commitments to truth and evidence , was accompanied by his unrestricted “ capacity to manipulate ” mass opinion and his play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . but , beyond this means that what can stop the demons had already unleashed ? and , though halted , can the damage that they have already wrought are being reversed ?
that might seem broadly beneficial , but it would help only those at high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions , mostly us households with annual income above $ 75,000 ( median american household income was $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . what ’s certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is nothing to suggest how any of his tax policies would be financed directly , with each indication that they would sharply widen the us budget deficit . finally , trump proposed tax deductions for the average health-care cost . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other us presidential candidates since richard nixon , he refused to release his income-tax records .
and in south africa , marlon parker , a co-founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency , known as zlato urge the participation of active participation in skills-training workshops . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; solving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; solving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . entrepreneurs backed through the anzisha prize , for example , created more than 300 jobs and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital . and , in south africa , marlon parker , a co-founder of social innovation academy and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency called zlato spur active participation in skills-training workshops .
the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether . avoiding this scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and its territorial integrity . but this would upset hardline brexiteers and could split the conservative party , risk theresa may has been reluctant to take . but after this is what scotland would demand its own particular arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , liking the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and perhaps dissolution . british leaders need to recognize that any brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs a national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences .
at the same time , the country received almost $ 70 billion in remittances last year alone , more than double the levels of inward foreign direct investment there last year . the critical importance of diaspora financing – from remittances by working-class indians , which transformed kerala ’s rural countryside to tens of millions poured into high-tech enterprises in bangalore or gurgaon of silicon valley ’s investor – can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than the overseas chinese do in china . encouraging them to do more and giving them reason to do more is certainly a worthwhile task for india ’s government , as well as the overt goal of the annan conclave . undoubtedly , there is a utilitarian aspect to the pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallels seminaries running by state governments to attract expatriate investment .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate probably pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand utility , falling sales , recruiting talent difficulties , lower-worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or an increase in climate-change-related costs . companies that score poorly at risk of losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or legal actions . apple ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s brand , for example , was recently shaken by revelations of brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where much of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concern among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed to regular reviews by an independent observer . there are now mobile phone “ apps ” that evaluate and grade big multinational firms ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ supply chains – that of investors as well as public figures .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the saving rate , as china ’s substituted for capital investment in infant investment . in addition , they tolerate enterprise or government policies that stimulate high levels of saving . this prevented the birth rate from its rebounding following its 1966-76 cultural revolution . but it fails to account for everything . for example , the uptrend in saving china began around the same time that its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 .
in the 1850s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusty old veteran of america ’s civil war , were proceeded to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate , but one without a distinguished student . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ “ second-class intellect ; first-rate temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader rested more on his emotional than on his analytical iq . while the concept is modern , the idea is not new . in fact , practical people have long understood its importance as a leader in leadership .
since sudan won its independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has convulsed almost continual north-south civil war based on cultural and religious divisions . artificial fusion of mainly arab , muslim north sudan , and the africa south , where christianity and its traditional sorcerer religious conviction are predominant , has been a abject failure . if the non-muslim south achieved its autonomy for a tremendous amount of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , the country is inconceivable that the country could have remained at peace . the issues were subsequently complicated by a discrete conflict – this time between muslims – over resources in the west darfur region . the artificial fusion of mainly arab , the muslim north of sudan and the africa south , where christianity and its traditional sorcerer belief is predominant , has been a abject failure .
ordinarily , they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i also received the requests -- often from a part of the global superpowers , in what was in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter and in which i had to spend my time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . being responsive to member states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ concerns and priorities was right and normal ; taking the orders from it was not . when i was administrator of the undp , i was forced to deal with the constant , “ “ requests ” from the government ’s representatives . ” nonetheless , my worldwide experience in both the undp and the world bank has suggested that the staff and management can and do act in accordance with article 100 .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund managing fund , lost around $ 90 billion over the past decade , three-quarters of it went to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , owing partly to the company ’s faulty assumption of the pace of a shift to green energy and a collapse in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations . these investors are calling on governments not just to curb rising temperatures , but also to meeting the paris climate agreement ’s tougher goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . more broadly , the investor agenda for the low-carbon world has attracted some 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in government-controlled assets . meanwhile , the asat institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already taken a financial hit .
but trouble with america ’s nato allies , particularly japan , could draw america into a fight that it strongly preferred to shun . in short , as china stands , on the precipice of large , necessary , and dangerous transformations that will promise to transform the country for the better – or to make everything , including regional stability , far worse . with the whole world in a big position to lose , the wider middle east has a large stake in what will happen next . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing america . its conflict with the united states is , for the moment , unlikely .
now , however , south africa ’s information right now is in jeopardy . south africa adopted its freedom of information laws in 2000 , more than five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution ensures due rights to public-sector information and , in many cases , private business information as well . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution ensures due process to public-sector information and , in many cases , private business information as well . south africa ’s nobel prize winner and the anti-apartheid activist , nadine gordimer , has likened the bill to apartheid legislation . in late november , the lower house of parliament – headed by the majority of african national people ’s congress ( anc ) – overwhelmingly endorsed a new law – the “ protection of the state ’s informational bill , ” whose acceptance would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , but it remains a strong performer , contributing about a third of total economic growth worldwide . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china , earlier this month , the world ’s largest economy , calling on china loudly for some of its new structural-reform commitments to spur growth in both the advanced and emerging-market economies . at the same time , it has become more sustainable , in line with the shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . but , at home , china faces significant risks . first and foremost , domestic credit has continued to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels .
hong kong – earlier this century , after china initiated its “ going out ” policy – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese firms – few expected the country to emerge quickly as a prominent economic player in latin america . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing the rather peripheral economic role in latin america to being integrated by many of the region ’s top investors and trading partners , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruding along smoothly – a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now laid the groundwork for a different destination : expanding its geopolitical clout in the region and beyond . yet , so far , that is precisely what it has been in the past . the question is whether that is good for latin america .
in remarks following the arab press conference , trump has praised trump as “ the very colorful , talented anybody ” and the “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” the two men surely deserve each other , and the most likely have to be supported by them . and both are predisposed – even meager – to bully , harangue , and lie to getting ahead . meanwhile , there is little question about which a american candidate , putin , would wish to see in the white house . both are toying with consummate propagandists and performers alike .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda , and pursue labor-market , tax , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france to a “ capitalist ” world of globalization . the second avenue would require macron to build on the pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , that is precisely the route he originally chose , quickly becoming the business-oriented international press ’s darling . as the late nobel laureate dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state , in order to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth . in practice , this would mean pursuing policies to aid the middle class , while updating an outdated center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models .
broadly aney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . under a benign scenario , people will club together in different states on the basis of their preferences for big or no government , public or private provision of services , and even international cooperation or isolationism . in the vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress might seek to constrain progressive states ’ rights ? “ if you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including the 60-year-old women , that ’s fines on everybody else ; that ’s all the fine , ” ” ” and if you do n’t ; then you can figure out how to amend the state that you live in ” or modify “ state legislatures and state legislation , ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . “ why look to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ?
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s gdp meet nuclear , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear sector through non-restoration of existing licenses and bans on future plants . the blueprints is still being formulated , but taken together by both countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward a greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investments in renewable-power installations , pushing their countries on a new , more competitive footing in the regional market . furthermore , they will pave the way for increased investments in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new , competing footing in the regional market .
under severe pressure from america , china ’s leaders essentially agreed to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . still , china ’s rulers are right to postpone the decision to float . because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the provision of us dollars , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not supervise its own currency . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market , and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender control over its money supply and interest rates to america . in fact , the chinese can delay but can not hide from basic economic laws : if the exchange rate between the two countries ’ currencies is fixed and capital flows between them is unconstrained , the economically dominant us exercise controls over another ’s monetary policy .
in fact , even that level might not be low enough . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that , over 1.5 ºc above 1.5 ºc are a risky , and that adaptation to it will be extraordinarily expensive , especially on developing countries and the island states . thus , we are in a race to the bottom . the good news is that , if we somehow put a stop to all our emissions today , we will have to keep temperatures up only a decade or so before we stabilize ourselves . will we turn the tap to nil at near-zero net emissions before the bathwater strikes a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ?
indeed , no one with any thought of the implications , both for the uk within the global trading system or as a impact on domestic political stability . i am afraid that this wo n’t be a pretty picture . but what , exactly , is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining choices ? is it really enough to have 52 % voting to breakup on a rainy day ? mind you , citizens of the west are blessed in an age of peace : changes in circumstances and priorities can be addressed through the eu ’s democratic processes of foreign and civil wars .
so , one would expect that smaller countries would spend proportionally more on defense rather than larger ones . neither security nor global influence is the only benefit that comes through military expenditures . defense spending is 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and switzerland reach 3 % . but confining talk about a defense commitment to the proportion of gdp spent in the army is insufficient , because there are upside economies of scale in defense spending . instead , today , as america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , with america ’s defense expenditure in the years ahead likely to rise even further during the years to come .
new york – in the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly this month , there was a widespread feeling of foreboding among world leaders . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era , and felt like it was “ “ present for the creation ” of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but , at the unga this year , too , many opposition attendees felt as though they were present in the devastation of that world . even before the summit began , europeans , gathers canadians , mexicans , south koreans , and japanese consulta in earnest about the need for a new salvation alliance to save the multilateral system . anxieties went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do , or tweet .
as events over the past two weeks in egypt have demonstrated all too vividly , the arab awakening remains only in its first act in many countries . in the medium to long term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crisis that america ’s leadership probably has been indispensable to resolving . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel might flare up at any time in this regard . even with america on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to produce a united front opposition , working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals . indeed , it is democracy that is fragile at best throughout north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have merely started feeling the flood of the tidal wave sweeping the region .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive powers in business , finance , or the government experienced a war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . these new leaders envision europe solely as a trade regime . the impact of this lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the face of the sub-prime crisis and the collapse of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse has been nationalistic and wholly anti-european . so there would be no common european plan for dealing with the crisis , and no call for public money . meanwhile , germany ’s eu diplomacy has been actively revolutionizing the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , not just in eastern europe .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war . such shortcomings are especially apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic .
such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is making accession to russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus happen to be joined in such a pact . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sad to that end , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and nefarious business practices , rather than boosting its trade or even its prosperity . when , say , a free-trade agreement is bad ? when , say , the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor liberty .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , the leader of the islamist party , appears less a reflection of latent ideological backing among the newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill the post-revolutionary political vacuum . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the suburbs of tunis symbolize its positions as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 offices . scores of male volunteers are being deployed in an electoral campaigning at a grassroots level , door-to-door level . ominously , while opponents recall the advance of party cadres as part of the deadly bombing of the tourist target in march 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appeasement of his critics .
consider first the claim that the us dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold us dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid , broadly accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports . but , since the late 1990s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have all accumulated extremely large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both dollar-denominated growth strategies and the desire to avoid a repeat of the more recent speculative currency attacks triggered by the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the apparent candidate for that reserve fund was us treasury bills . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ “ foreign-exchange reserves ” ” ” in the conventional sense .
it is extremely difficult for liberals to embrace the reality that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . it is extremely hard for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what will happen to the real economy . under prime minister viktor orbán , poland has become increasingly authoritarian . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian .
the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major threat to humankind . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the poverty cycle . the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to growing global conflicts . un secretary ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france , former president nicolas sarkozy , has proposed a global partnership for food . the countries and organizations are already mobilizing around the world .
but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds that are both less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet the negative-yielding yields are also occurring in countries and regions with depreciating currencies and likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the european core , and japan . many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , do not have alternative options , because they are forced to hold safer bonds . to be sure , negative returns force their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit retirement plans need a positive breaking point , and when most of its assets lose a negative nominal return , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to achieve . likewise , why are investors holding such assets in dollars ?
during his first year and a half in office , macron had begun to tackle these problems and succeeded in delivering a budget along the lines of the eu ’s deficit rule . step by step , his reforms seem consistently to benefit the wealthy . the problem is that , in pursuing these reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . with polls indicating that some 70 % of french support for the yellow vest protesters in france , macron has been forced to back trump . and so , when putin announced that his government would increase taxes on diesel fuel , middle east – and working-class commuters took to the streets .
in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears – stoked in part by populist political leaders in much of the world – that supranational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” : an “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order above national interests . ” but the perspectives that refute this narrative seem to be gaining ground . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their sway over the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs , without any “ clear ” endgame . some also argue that the global elite only pretend to be pursuing socioeconomic change , while actually maintaining the status quo that has benefited them . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to transnational cooperation are political .
this is an alternative to the one calling for inflation a way to lower long-term debt ( to the detriment of investors ) , but it has an equally serious vulnerabilities . first , while low rates may encourage expenditure when borrowing were easy , it is far from clear that today ’s traditional savers would go out and spend . think of the soon-to-be-retire office worker . by raising inflation , the fed would reverse real interest rates seriously negative , thereby resetting thrifty households to spend instead of saving . with rising demand , firms would hire , all of it well .
for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers , padded , padded misleading accounting on debt cancellation operations . though the g-8 made a clear promise , no roadmap was on its way to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear guidelines that no such plan would have been undertaken . with those debt cancellation operations largely completed , data are now exposing a stark reality : development aid to africa and to poor countries more generally is stagnant , in contrast to all promises that have been made . moreover , the g-8 has now been reaping the consequences of its inaction . explicitly , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , increased at a meager 2 % .
but , on a global level , inequality has actually fallen . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality in the us . according to the bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the life of the 2015-2016 survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far exceeded the levels of reality described by official data – typically based on household surveys . but that , then , is not what the average citizen sees . and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , it has not been particularly dramatic , leaving it at reasonable levels .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most powerful formal governmental organizations in global history . america ’s central bank has controlled more than the money supply , and currently exerts great influence over us interest rates through both short-term and long-term borrowing . and although the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that brought on the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it even more authority and a greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is an alarming outcome , given that top fed officials seem to have slid back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about unsafe financial-sector behavior – even as such concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee . this is not just unfortunate ; it is also a dangerous one , given that the fed ’s own political position is actually far more shaky than its us leadership seems to realize .
at this stage , however , we continue to be a great deal of treading on the terra incognita . as a result , throughout the anthropocene era , scientists and engineers face a daunting task : to steer the direction of environmentally sustainable management . that will require appropriate human behaviors on all levels and may well involve internationally accepted , massive geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . at this stage , we are still mostly treading on the terra incognita . that will require corresponding human behavior at all levels and may well involve internationally accepted , expansive geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate .
in all of these cases , a cynic would be half-right . but there are , in fact , at least two exceptions to this suspicion . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that recently emerged from dictatorship . the process requires a constitution that is made of a frequently complex and painful kind . constitutional change is for political leaders as a welcome distraction from far more top-down issues of social policy .
the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s ’s ’s ’s economic growth reflects trends there from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the world ’s slowest rate for any quarter of seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it has been driven , in part , by the unforeseeable surge in real-estate investment growth , to barely 6 % . that is not to say that what china needs now is more real-estate investment . this is undermining corporate profitability , encouraging firms to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further declines in ppi .
but this does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait to prove proven wrong , owing to the possibility that , in the first year since last year , his reported trade deficit will narrow , even as the true trade deficit widens . on value-added terms , the patent makes the largest contributions , in terms of trade . all of this comes down to “ transfer pricing , ” based on what prices supranational corporations are using to put in their value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company rosales , which introduces a new plant in iran . iran steals imports some of its inputs ( most notably the intellectual property represented by the drug patent ) , its assembles the product in iran and its exports it back to america .
the recommendations have included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities ; expanding access to modern contraception ( including access to emergency contraception ) ; increasing access to sex schooling ; and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule . and yet , owing to american policies , none of these changes will come easily . solutions start at home , which helps developing countries to start moving away from the conditional aid that restricts health providers ’ capacity to operate according to local laws . local ngos , together with accountable global partners , must find new support to support programs that educate women about their rights , and provide access to safe and abortion services .
it was gandhi ’s ’s ’s faith that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not the set of new benchmarks it sets . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing more opportunities for new ideas and disruptive thinking . we want firms that already offer refugees online education , the internet of access , and the hardware to drive educational provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing this fund , we ended an era of a formulaic crisis response .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but descended into turmoil . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but descended into chaos . debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with a us-dominated rebellion in eastern germany , fueled tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started pulling itself together . russia ’s intervention to some extent backfired , strengthening its european orientation .
now , the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , under the pressure of both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . here , regulators are keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require a complicated arrangement to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . against this backdrop , the challenge of maintaining the primacy of global standards and secure the continued buy-in of the basel process will be the challenge of preserving the primacy of global standards . against the bank for international settlements , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play here , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as the fsb chairman . it is also likely that the new chair of the basel committee itself will soon emerge .
the crisis made it clear that national supervision of banks operating globally was inadequate . supervision , more transparency in financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and better international policy coordination . for banks that function globally , crisis resolution mechanisms to function globally have been absent . for some time now , regulatory gaps have exposed spillover effects from other countries . clearly , there is a clear demand for international coordination of regulation .
europeans can confront down the us ’s threats of extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and even russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoidance of american banks . a oil-for-goods deal can be accomplished through the euro-clearing mechanism , such as instex , in instex . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . if it were to execute them against most others in the world today , damage to america ’s economy , the us dollar , the us stock market , and american leadership would be irreparable .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu in their future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully whatever was intended . at the same time , such treaties should include collective-action clauses , making it implausible that vulture funds are not welcome to withhold debt restructurings . when enough senior creditors agree to a restructuring plan ( in argentina , holders of more than 90 % of countries ’ debt did ) , others can force themselves to go along . exposing the existence of the international monetary fund , america ’s department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing vulture funds . but so , too , is the court ’s ruling , which evidently assigned little weight to their arguments .
oil exporters must increase their fiscal expenditure further ; japan and europe must trigger higher growth through structural reform ; and america must implement more concrete measures to sustain a higher savings rate . knowing what to do in this increasingly sophisticated and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ just ” just doing so . as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress earlier this year noted , for china these plans are intended to “ rebalance ” its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving more flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . but expanding demand and allowing for actually more efficient exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . indeed , rebalancing the pattern of us growth is the central economic objective of china ’s leadership .
yet as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-oriented , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as a gauge of the economics ’ health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the american could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . washington , dc , gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of the economic ’s welfare over more than 80 years . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the notion that he should n’t take steps to protect his own interests is an ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , awarding credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out of reaching him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pockets should certainly be worrying to the americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite his imperfections , america remains a positive power in the world . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , alongside the european union , that should stop squabbling and begin to “ curtailing ” its megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders such as hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . and the western ’s policies toward russia , economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland , are not necessarily bad .
if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , that figure would be higher . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poorer countries reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions , build their resilience against effects of climate change , which they can no longer afford . while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a preliminary but plausible indicator of a data-driven climate finance that developed countries are providing . but bigger channels of financial flows are needed , mainly from the private sector .
first among such sources of insecurity is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? then there is the set of questions concerning the impact of new technologies . similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adjust fast enough to inject change , or overcome it ? moreover , while inter-communal conflicts have receded , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identity-constrained politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague certain regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurities .
should the bush administration seek stable , secure , diverse , and low-cost oil supplies , it may simply have lifted embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let the oil gush continue . but america ’s interest in iraq was not driven solely by its economics or energy policy . for its part , the bush administration has recognized that virtually all of iraq ’s oil resources are a critical geopolitical asset . yet it is also clear that the us has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future a democratic iraq . to be sure , whoever controls iraq ’s own oil controls is what none of us controls iraq .
one hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equal to 25 % of gdp , whereas an estimated 800 million of its compatriots survive on less than one dollar every day . in comparison with indian capitalism ’s ethical lapse is particularly benign . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are the concomitant of western-style capitalist culture . but challengers , like china and india , are in no position to preach . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s premier economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than china , with per capita gdp , in america four times higher than in china .
typically , that principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at various levels of labor income , for different kinds of consumption , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . thus , the us government has shifted in the wrong direction since 2009 to sharply raising marginal income-tax rates at rock-bottom levels ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the top ( by raising income-tax rates in the rich ) . from this perspective , america ’s individually income-tax shortcoming is that marginal tax rates are high at the very bottom ( owing to testing welfare programs ) and forward at the very top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methodologies is america ’s payroll tax , for which marginal income-tax rates are near the oecd ’s average rate ( because deductions are absent and pay little graduation rate structure ) . that is why the cuts in 2011-2012 ’s payroll tax rate and making the rate rescheduled more graduated ( on the medicare side ) have been flaws from the standpoint of efficient tax rates .
for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple danger : not only do importing countries need to pay more for their grain , they must pay even more to their countries , and still deliver it to consumers , who may live a long distance from their ports . so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy , and do not take measures to cushion the impact of international price movements on home prices , home prices of rice and some other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices are already low . rising interest rates can undercut the aggregate demand that can slow the economy and tame rising prices of some goods and services , especially nontraded goods and services , and especially non-traded goods and services . for example , even with rising global energy and food prices at a slower pace than now , at 20 % per year – and getting back on home prices – bringing overall inflation down to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere that would almost surely entail an eventual marked economic slowdown and a period of high unemployment . but unless taken to an intolerable level , these actions by themselves can not bring inflationary down to targeted levels .
yet the defeats never force new attitudes , policies or leaders . the important point for them is that they gained revenge by inflicting harm , demonstrated that they were genuine men , did not buckle under and survived . in fact , such a pattern is a formula for ceaseless conflict and endlessly defeats . the bankrupt leaders that brought on and on groups that did not triumph become heroes for being able to claim that they courageously fought the enemy without being crushed . as a result , they do not formally give up anything .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of the incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . america ’s basic governance institutions have survived more challenges than anything that trump may pose . although america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to democracy ’s central tenets : free , fair , and periodic elections and protections of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to overturn any of them ; and , even if he does attempt , he will fail . when he leaves office , the american people will essentially be what it was when he entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even when tissue has already been removed from a patient ’s own body . today , brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , piilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissues repositories to studying various diseases . virtually the whole of us has the tissue on file , on file one , in the other . so , in the process , who is supposed to have access to these respective samples ? for which purposes are they who can be used ?
at the same time , they need to understand the nature of contextual intelligence that they will have to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . leadership is broadly disaggregated throughout sound democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good , bad leaders . most important , in today ’s ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the character and limits of fresh leadership demands . with soft power still in place , the energies of empowered followers reinforce leaders . in turn , potential leaders can learn more about the sources and limits of soft-power skills of emotional iq , vision and communication , together with hard-power political and organizational skill .
that deal was intended to set the stage for an independence referendum in western sahara the following year , a democratic resolution . but morocco prevented this from participating in the process from ever taking the place . it did so in an act of defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy , from traveling to the region , to set the stage for talks . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a truce . at the same time , morocco has repeatedly obstructed progress toward any further negotiation .
to a large extent , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with much more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with fewer . royal openly claims mitterand ’s legacy as he quest for legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . moreover , both candidates embody continuity , with the gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand in france for royal – as much as the rupture in france . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac faced the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the victor next year will have whomever the electorate dislikes or fear less .
chinese officials have also become more willing to discuss in forming a code of conduct for the south china sea . but china ’s recent swing away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests , offer hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , as china withdrew its jumbo oil platform from us waters off the disputed paracel islands last july , it has been sending surveillance vessels to the senkaku islands less frequently . with obama reluctant or unable to do so , owing to rising political partisanship at home , to take the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , with america ’s us allies taking things exactly right . global powers need to be allocated somewhere ; with the american people failing to fill its leading role on the international stage , an understudy would have to step in .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entry into the labor market in large measure . most americans ’ per capita incomes and wealth are below their levels long before the crisis . indeed , broadly typical full-time male workers ’ incomes are lower than they have been in more than four decades . yes , the us has done some things in order to improve the financial markets . some increased capital requirements have been raised – but far short of what is needed .
what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant . the republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty . it is worth recalling president george w. bush ’s outcome of president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime , promptly and predictably , has developed a nuclear bomb . in fact , whether america will continue to lead the world remains far from clear . the two leading contenders for the us party ’s nomination , donald trump , and ted cruz , both say they would tear up the iran nuclear deal if he was elected .
later , president vladimir voronin of the day gave amnesty to detainees . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin continue to hurl ’s accusations at the opposition and romania of orchestrating a coup d’état . restoring stability and a fair democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost , because moldovans deserve a government that is responsible . stability is also important , because the country ’s borders on romania , a european union member state . indeed , legal proceedings against the opposition parties have been opened in legal terms .
on the eve of their collapse , quite a few arab autocrats were effectively lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . this raises a raft of other questions . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been problems with the policies they prescribed for the arab ancien régimes . in the process , were economists focused on the wrong figures ? were they misled by a false theory of inferences ?
as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents garnered rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) in total , and the amount could reach rmb1 trillion by the end of this year . whereas china did decide to let the rmb appreciate gradually , once it had relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) as to prevent china from effectively upholding macroeconomic stability over the years . but rmb internationalization encourages non-resident non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . to be sure , the crucial goal of china ’s capital controls lies in preventing non-resident non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets , unrelated to trade and long term capital flows .
the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war that will have arrived for less than a century after his death . but , in doing so , what happens is more than that . in fact , there is a direct threat to democracy in the country that it should have its deepest cultural and political roots . trump does n’t just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past as he puts it . he and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions on which america ’s democracy rests , including courts , the legislative branch , an independent media , and more .
whereas official us interest rates are just 1 % , solvent mediterranean sovereigns like spain pay above 5 % for ten years to borrow , while creditworthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates if at all . in short , they can not rely on structural reform alone to stimulate growth in 2012 . instead , an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits – like france , italy , and spain ( together with the united kingdom ) – needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits , such as france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . so the ecb should do more to block the transmission mechanism of us monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts , rather than hitting a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where needed , national governments to provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size firms . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up europe ’s banks ; italy now needs a supporting its real economy , too .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term his popular party has privatized the vast majority of public-sector firms , and deregulated a wide range of service sectors . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficits and depress unemployment . at the same time , it promises to slash income taxes , place the country on a steady footing in the social-security system , and lowers the cost of being able to buy labor . the introduction of genuine competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process up until now , is equally pledged as well . at the same time , aznar ’s program is sensible , though still ambitious .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every area of the business world ; trump in business activity over the internet astounds . as recently as january 1995 , there have been annual flows of around 27,000 us business addresses from the internet , up from about 27,000 us companies . an important new report by the american department of commerce , “ the emerging digital economy ” indicates that the internet has been reshaping not only america ’s entrepreneurship , but the world economy as a whole . in 1994 , three million people , most of whom are american , used the internet . in 1994 , three million people , mostly american , used the internet .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far greater scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . we should be pleased about this - and maybe regulations put in place in response to the concerns expressed by environmental organizations have played some part in that outcome . regulations to protect the environment and consumer health must be kept . ( natural foods can also carry health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular sort of cinnamon can cause liver injury . ) while cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may happen , so far no new superweeds have emerged .
unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making tough choices until risks actually materialize . sadly , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making tough choices until risks actually materialize . we are told not to fear a large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred , and governments remain vigilant . in fact , the virus can be only a few hundred lines of computer code lines compared with hundreds of thousands of lines for counter-virus programs that must be designed to detect a wide classroom of “ enemies . ” the virus both protect and virus development constitute an uneven arms race .
such impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis conducted by the team of eminent economists to my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , to assess potential population-related targets , with the aim of identifying the best global investment . at the same time , there are tremendous potential benefits to this approach . indeed , a modest 3 % growth in developed-country workforce would provide a bigger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . such migrant worker ’ taxes would help the developed countries fund older workers ’ services , and their remittances would help their home countries . moreover , every dollar invested in this initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally effective use of scarce resources .
indeed , wellington , paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs . it ’s the preferred medications for relieving fever and pains because of its safety profile 10 years ago ; the hypothesis was proposed that the use of paracetamol could increase the risk of developing asthma . a number of epidemiological studies since then have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in their womb , childhood , and adulthood . wellington , a paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) was one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs . since then , a series of epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in their womb , childhood , and in adulthood . these studies guided by the suggestion that the use of paracetamol may represent an important risk in developing asthma .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the us department of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . today , the country believes that more than 60 working astronomers do , more than half of all african astronomers do in africa . mcgruder , who works closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raising careers ’ profile in science and engineering in a part of the world where most educated people still go to finance or administer it . in a country that is deeply divided economically , “ what ’s on earth to benefit the poor , and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” the physicist questions asks harold annegarn , a professor at the johannesburg school of medicine . “ the answer , ” he says , is partly that by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals .
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and the mega-financial crisis have been a logical outcome . now , because neither banks nor investors had enough assets to plough into the networked mega-firms , the mega-bank emerged in the form of a global bank cartel and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profitably repayment to the future . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads – particularly in an post-2008 reality that confirms the full control over society through “ mega-firms ” and mega-banks . the crashes of 1929 and the 2008 unstoppable rise of big tech , and all today ’s other components of discontent with capitalism became inescapable .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that the global imbalances would reemerge as the crisis passed . that now appears unlikely : neither the us nor china is returning to its pre-crisis gdp pattern or spending pattern . nor is the us the earlier trade balances about to reemerge on its own . for their part , emerging markets have learned that their export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid us growth . america ’s trade position will be enhanced by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy energy energy energy energy self-sufficiency and with productivity increases that auger the further re-shoring of manufacturing production .
during the election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in its xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one may at times find credible reporting alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . despite such behavior , orbán has been re-elected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , just enough to amend the constitution . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the subject of many investigations by europe ’s anti-crooks office . both governments have vacillated on implausible organizations and targeted or co-opted the media .
following such debates , america ’s national health institute ( nih ) promulgated guidelines in favor of allowing the government ’s use of stem-cell r & d system , but in its current form , prohibit federally-funded investigators from creating new stem-cell lines . one recognizes that restricting the use of government funds to establish stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps . that limitation requires that stem celllines must be obtained only from the privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the guidance protocols mandated by those mandated by guidelines . we do know that a variety of ill-considered factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity in order to differentiate all feasible celltypes of cell types . this loss of path-based capacity might result from a special mode in which stem cells are derived , the conditions surrounding their rise , and other treatments variables .
whereas bank regulators have instruments to pressure banks similarly , their most efficient ones are power to trigger insolvency when it works best for the economy . far from accepting these donations , however , the plan would go largely through regulators . for example , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank bankrupt area , leaving it to the discretionary powers of a bank ’s own executive . in the nonfinancial sector , failing firms often wait too long before claiming insolvency , so lenders might then step in to make some of the squeeze , potentially even forcing the failed firm ’s bankruptcy . taking away this tool could have severe adverse consequences at worst .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies such as solar and wind no longer peddled environmental issues alone . the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , an eminent energy economist at the center of energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to assess the “ state of sciences ” in defining , measuring , and predict the creation of green jobs . sadly , that does n’t measure up to the point of view of economic reality in the long run . instead , we are told about the transformational economic payoffs , primarily the vow of so-called “ green jobs . ”
after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where experimentation must be found across all sectors is an indispensable determinant of success . in today ’s winner-takes-all economics , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest . genuine engagement with civil society is the only way to spur two struggling governments and overcome their own conservatism . it is , nonetheless , regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are very obscure . it is absolutely vital that we factor into a new method , adapted to the current world in which we live – a world in which we live – in muffled ministerial debates or through convoluted communiqués .
what is needed as it is , we need a pro-growth investment that will help provide jobs to our peoples and their products and resources to the world . while there is much that the us can and will do to help on good , the horn of africa may still reap the benefits of international help . in both somaliland and ethiopia , for example , they cooperate on building a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia the ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world . but the international community needs much more than food and medicine to victims of famine and drought . that means working to support a market economy and stable government , rather than subsidize failure and failed states .
trento – the most significant outcome of the european parliament election is neither that conservatives and social democrats have lost the seats to the liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists gained much less than anticipated . it is that citizens have voted overwhelmingly in much larger numbers than anyone expected . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not herald war at all .
for , in our zeal to learn lessons from history , we too often learn wrong or distort history toward a dubious end . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica were also influenced by memory from world war ii . nonetheless , the laudable effort to prevent this kind of deal from being recurring has had unfortunate consequences . indeed , while mass killings are not precious in history , hitler ’s annihilation plan was , if hardly unique , certainly extremely unusual . we now know that hitler had been intent on destroying every last jewish man , wife , and child .
this is the paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it is politicians ’ duty to deal with the tensions to which it gives rise . yet it is also our citizens ’ duty to uphold the formal , political meaning of citizenship as state interference broadens to ensure the well . that may restrict political freedom in the name of greater equality . but the path to particularistic action that does not undermine individual liberty and human equality is quite narrow . democratic principles call for societies to be organized in such a way that both values can be realized greatest .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are their usual marks of an economic boom ? an exterior imbalance would be lawless , indeed , unsustainable . if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has over the last thirty years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying . on one hand , households would behave in an essentially irresponsible fashion . on the other hand , stock market prices would be far too high as well .
indeed , france actually does better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , in contrast to germany , france or the us , it has retained the same global market share in its industrial sector that it did in the early 1970 ’s . but deindustrialization is common to all of the advanced countries . baverez ’s evidence of deflation is not nearly as convincing as he believes . for example , he cites france ’s draining away from industrial jobs as the most glaring evidence of france ’s decline . moreover , on a better measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france does quite well .
a second lesson that i have learned is also useful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge and where all actors , from doha to libreville , have to deal with the challenges of globalization and inter-dependence on a daily basis . if italy and the eu failed to grasp the need to work with the non-european countries and compel them to feel believed that they were responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , the effort to establish the icc , and be so close , to declaring a universal moratorium on the death penalty , would be unsuccessful . beyond that , these friends deserve the respect and attention they deserve . i know that this is not an exact new lesson , but it is what i have in mind when i contemplate efficient multilateralism . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has foes .
empathy makes us kinder to persons with whom we empathize . of course , he does not offer any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who savaged strangers ’ lives , even though such cases have been documented . that is good , but there is an even darker side as well . trump , in his campaign speeches , made use of the tragic murder of kafate steinle by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . the trouble is that the empathy for american workers is in tension with the empathy of workers in mexico and china , who would have been even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts are .
this brings us to the imf its fourth role , namely using its bully pulpit to warn of risk created by the largest-ever country ’s policies . small countries are subject to market discipline , as almost any latvian will tell you . or it might have been that national policymakers have no confidence in the imf , given that it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , there is a need for the fund to win back that confidence . financial markets and global reach institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just a loosely organized college of supervisors .
provided there is no downward pressure on the price of money wages from increased competition for work ; the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the norm of living . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should drop except in a few niche markets . businessmen are not needing low inflation in order to expand their production . they need only the prospects for more sales . this is the famous argument of friedrich hayek against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize the price level .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is around half the size of china ’s size , but larger than japan ’s and more than twice that of india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s . these divergences help us to explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 ’s , including the n-11 ’s mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog line ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did not devise these groupings , but i came together to them , produced the bbc radio documentary in the mountainous countries in 2014 . then , eight years later , the fog economies still have a chance to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . they used to be firmly on earlier points that i had risen ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp , according to 2010 .
america ’s intelligence agencies drew attention to president barack obama ’s handling of russia ’s tactics and warned putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call out russia publicly , or to take forceful actions , for fear that russia would escalate by attacking electoral machinery or voting rolls and jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s anticipated victory . and , because us president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take powerful measures . the us intelligence services ’ brilliance of information warfare has been to combine existing technologies , with a degree of deniability that has remained just below the overt attack threshold . after his election , obama went public and exiled russian spies and shut down some of his diplomatic facilities , but america ’s weaknesses undercut any deterrent deal .
cambridge – this year ’s us presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump shudder at the running the campaign , how a nominee communicates with the electorate , and a republican party ’s platform , with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line . he changes his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s proclaimed positions risks being rendered meaningless in just a few hours .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and become deepened . and it seems likely that russia was intervening directly in the domestic politics of western democracies , exploiting leaks of sensitive documents and funding the right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , who would have supported the kremlin . moreover , ukraine ’s crisis is far from resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are not being respected , and armed conflict may escalate in an instant . then there is russia ’s own role in syria . russia has withdrawn from a series of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin has recently imposed strikes on iran that can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad near the polish border .
why does it appear to despise the eu so profoundly ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking given that he is america ’s rapidly growing emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s core national-security issue . so the us seems to be cronies again , or perhaps just resting before disputes resumes . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most trusted ally ? why should america try to undermine europe , rather than pursue closer cooperation in order to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ?
the message , the product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community , identifies germany ’s contemporary values and interests as a commitment to the “ pursuit of human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order founded on universal norms . ” as gauck has suggested , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ conservation and continued adaptation ” of that order . to achieve this objective , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with a capacity to resolve problems , and resolve the conflicts that affect all or parts of the international community . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions , enabling it to work well with others , and creating and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ” the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states are geography , demography , economic heft , and a military might , coupled with affordability of resources and technological proficiency , remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual sway in international politics .
he made strong allusions to poland ’s history , and was very flattering to the us as the poles . he did not utter a single negative word about the european union , germany , or france . with his performance , trump did manage to attract enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , rather than only pis-curative crowds , thanks partly to his public greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa , who was booed with pis supporters and remains the consistently target of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an ousted critic of the pis government , concluded : “ i believe trump ’s speech was quite well . ” and he has implicitly denounced gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , pledging to help poland while diversifying its gas supply .
add to that china ’s additional strengths , at least $ 10 trillion , a growth rate at least four percentage points higher than the global average , at $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus and an exchange-rate crisis seem highly unlikely . the key will be that markets and policymakers on the same page . given that all this activity occurs in the offshore renminbi market – which is small on scale and has only limited ties to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy of financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . but this does n’t mean that there are no risks . on the contrary , as china has a powerful interest in curbing volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world .
many polish bishops almost openly declare their flock : you are meant to listen , not to think or dispute . if your behavior is good – ie , you are not drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give your church money – you are fine . in a church that boasts saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems startling . even young men study for priesthood receive extremely weak philosophical vocational training , and this is done purposefully . in a church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems startling .
as in all the democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular occupation , including journalists , are given no form of immunity from these kinds of severe criminal charges . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proven itself to be the prime guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its institutional reform . its freedom of speech and freedom of the press is guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and statutes . moreover , it should be noted that more than 7,000 papers and magazines are made in turkey , with nearly five million copies of total circulation . of the country ’s five most widely read papers , four favor opposition over the government .
nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for the ruling party , which no longer can point to a rapidly rising standard of living . the us and others will have to push back , in order to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation . but the bigger policy choices will be in the hands of china to make . indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to assume its place among the world ’s leading countries , provided that it behaves responsibly and according to the rules set for all .
( little asset bubbles , in , say , individual stocks , do all the time , and do n’t qualify as an answer to that question . ) to my mind , bubbles are social epidemics fostered by an act of interpersonal contagion . great speculative bubbles are rare occurrences , and great speculative bubbles are rare occurrences . but contagion rates depend on patterns of thinking that are hard to make one judge . a bubbles form when rates of contagion goes up for thought that supported the booms .
the last half-century has shown that , while there is no way of development , this is not inevitable . the great communist experiment is practically at an end ( to save a handful of holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . socialism had its day in courts and was found wanting . the last half-century has shown that , while there is no limit to development , it has not been inevitable . the ideology of the far right , as represented by the washington consensus of the neoliberal era , market fundamentalism , has been n’t much more successful , though its failures often go unheeded .
there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s micro-targeting operation in the us presidential election in may 2016 played the decisive role in key states that he needed to win an electoral college . micro-targeting has proven the most effective not to win over undecided voters , but to dissuading people from voting completely . second , with intra-eu migration having escalated , almost 15 million europeans now residing in eu countries other than their own . by collecting or recounting large voter data sets , campaigns can segment the electorate into strategic clusters that use elaborate algorithms and then deliver the personalized online content to the most susceptible voters . as populists well recognize , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in the eu ’s elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and the over-intricate absentee-voting procedures .
even if the chinese authorities manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability to the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it will effectively become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve-currency currencies are not readily apparent . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often lending better stores of value that are less prone to high inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . at the same time , the rest of the world may be reluctant to erect claims against china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve-currency status . indeed , more than three centuries of globalization , just three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the united states dollar . it is also perhaps no accident that the global financial summit and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination .
when contemplating which lessons from germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what a government can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workforce , and society at large . germany today has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits above germany ’s 10 years ago . a turnabout in germany ’s public finance has been the result of mostly cut . the one area where the government ’s clear stake is public finance . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit approaching 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by today ’s ’s ’s standards , but higher than that of the eu at that time .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . to see how things are working in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities are willing to attempt new ways to make things happen ( to be blunt , behave like guinea ) . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data city ” ( open access city ) that i launched with trento town in italy , alongside telecom italia , telefónica , a research university fondazione brundazione bruno kessler , a dogged design institute , and local firms . that involves moving beyond the closed-minded , question-and-answer process typical of the laboratory , applying our ideas in a company earlier and more frequently than ever before . indeed , this involves moving beyond laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the manner of europe ’s policy toolkit working in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks both an army or a central secret service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical objective . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent feature of life . when you choose cheaper wine , you can splurge on dessert . all of us are recognizing this from our private our budgets , we all recognize this . to repair our roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . trade-offs also pervade environmental policy : cutting another single pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to tackle other issues .
london – the british election , convened by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s politics and its relations with europe , but not necessarily in how a vastly elevated majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth beating that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by a daily mail headline on may ’s electoral announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after destroying all the opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could effectively extend the brexit deadline , for three related reasons . first , by bringing ahead the british election , may has effectively extended the brexit deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 to 2022 .
it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world has to deal with the built-in benefit of china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system is incapable of dealing with changes . then again , perhaps we are fortunate that things are not getting worse . from east to west , politics seems to operate in ways that are inherently diplomatic , suboptimal . no wonder , then , that the impressive premier is thought to favor some form of political loosening . elsewhere , of course , that sort of turmoil has democratic safety valves .
princeton – one of the largest unresolved questions in the european union is its mobility . the process of integration was meant to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one eu country to another . by this vision , the eu ’s citizens had the nation to lose , as well as its continent , to gain . but some recent electoral results suggest more fear of losing the nation . ever since the european single act of 1986 removed working restrictions on other member countries , the continent had a single labor market , at least in theory .
with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changing priorities . but increasing animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries mean that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . a better alternative would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone in which elected national representatives have even more say . one possibility would have been greater federalism , in italy . common political institutions , responsive to voters across the eurozone , would have provided a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and helped cage german power .
bogotá , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as it is elusive . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and further beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it has also placed some pressure on governments regarding what not to take . in these respects , the g-20 has been a clear step forward . during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy reaction and the role of the international monetary fund . more recently , however , as the g-20 struggled to reconcile divergent domestic economic interests and revival strategies , it has been far less successful relative to its original meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable ’s cover of chief executives of america ’s largest companies , with its combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion , is updating its longstanding statement with corporate purpose . it ’s not just a concern about shareholders , ceos say ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , the community , and the environment . in fact , the shareholders have come in the last among ceos ’ new book . and declaring ’s principal author , in his evident exhilaration , is reported to have said to have felt like thomas jefferson recommitting the declaration of independence . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the american could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in dentate gyrus , which is being suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by many antidepressant therapies . this indicates that the physiological processes underlying depression – those likely to result in structural shifts in the brain as well – are not being arrested altogether , and therefore a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . still , one problem with many nowadays medications is that , even at a rate of cure , the recurrence of the great depression is very high – around 70-80 % . lithium , a mood stabilizer and a neuroprotective agent have the properties we are seeking , though its toxicity make less than ideal . if so , new antidepressant drugs will need to target what seem to be the kind of progressive neurodegenerative change in our brains , which we infer take place because the recurrence of depression is so high under the currently available therapies .
that is also the view , betty resignations , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are ” are a reason why asian-americans like me are on therapy . stanley scrutiny , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide that is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . chua would reply that reaching the high levels of achievement brings great satisfaction and that the only way to do that is through hard work . tiger parenting seeks to reach the most out to children to make the most of what skills they have , and so seems to lean toward the “ smart or happy ” side of the “ smart or happy ” choice . he believes that increasing family pressure is a significant factor .
one is that a startling number of populist leaders have managed to come to power in recent years . mostly they enter the political scene from france but manage to form a much personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen , and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant parties , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . in some cases , they are individuals such as venezuelan president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s ex-prime minister , silvio berlusconi . together , many other names might have been added to the list . overall , the list is told just two things , and one can only assume one or two .
there is some clear status benefits to the minority ; no obvious harm is done to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are ambiguous . the families are having fewer and fewer children , and more children are born more and longer than before . fewer and fewer people conspire to marry , and marriage is considered less and less and less like a life-long union . so , one of the more “ unintended consequences ” of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to the married ranks , even if those additional recruits are part of the historically unorthodox kind . after a lot of soul-searching , i voted at the bill , albeit without an acute sense that i have been striking at the cusp of liberty .
setting the right example is another critical form of communication for leaders . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised the salaries of government officials in march 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that it would forgo the raise on its own . throughout its 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be a talented communicator . in the wake of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily cut their salaries as a means of communicating their employees and in public opinion . ronald reagan was a master at his well chosen anecdote .
london – nowadays , antibiotics are becoming ever more ineffective , not only at fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and the urinary tract , but also at the level of treating a wide range of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now risks becoming incurable . indeed , ten million people could be dying as a result of amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india every housing some one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp would already be lost . failure to address amr will affect everyone regardless of their nationality or their countries ’ level of development . with g-7 leaders committed in their recent joint declaration to address “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , this is time for the more inclusive g-20 – and for china , as it chairs the group for the first time to take the battle to be on the next level .
sydney – appointing five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a stark reminder that china ’s ascension to the next generation of leaders , to assume power in 2012 , may prove to be the most significant development in chinese politics , since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees to the people ’s republic were born after its founding in 1949 . the upcoming generation of leaders will be for the first time with little or no personal memory of the tumult and hardship endured during the mao zedong years . forgetting that history might doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and fix its leaders free . hu chunhua and sun zhengcai in 1949 .
in this set of potential outcomes , one points stands out : uncertainty about europe ’s role in the future global system . to prevent inexorable decline , europe must reach out to clear decisions on three fundamental questions . first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the euro crisis . first , eu leaders must set out how to resolve the euro crisis . for example , a cyber superbug destroys the networks upon which our paths of life have risen to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapse .
if not , why will asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue funding speculation against itself ? the american dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . the question now is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement that resembles the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen , and the german deutsche mark . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue funding speculation against itself ? past experience has taught china ’s genuine engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms , not easy money and competitive devaluation . but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory demands ) alongside negative interest rates , causing financial institutions of capital to decline , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , increasing illiquidity , and crowded exits .
we saw buildings – and not just hamas ’s ex-headquarters – still in rubble . but the real life , too , is made traumatic and limited by all of them , much less of it . there is no electricity for as much as eight hours per day , but at least in the short and medium term . homes are riddled with bullet holes . and the good traffic deal – with new cars smuggled in tunnels beneath the philadelphia route ” that runs through the egyptian border .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade . many central bankers are like the proverbial general who plans to fight the last war . but , unlike backward-looking us military strategies , misguided monetary policies produce inevitable damage , rather than merely worrisome risk . yet , despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and the end result may fail to confront the latest round of economic menace – world deflation . in both china and hong kong , china have seen prices plummet only recently .
the first would foment the war . the world must steadfastly defy another ruinous american military adventures . this clearly is on the american agenda , particularly with the neoconservative doyen john bolton back in the white house as the national security adviser . even if american troops now out of the jcpoa , it has two means of blocking implementation of the agreement between iran and the outside world . extraterritorial sanctions are the other way that america could kill the jcpoa .
a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war but can not be implemented today with no flexibility and strategic commonsense . probably in response to this impasse , china has pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point out that , while america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , by china would continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world , one route or another . channeling that influence through a newly created international organization , they argue , is more likely to temper us-made raw power grabs . the magnitude of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact of despair .
tel aviv , america ’s president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without ever saying so well . what he thinks in terms of instant profits and losses , a worldview exemplified in his declaration that america ’s allies need to contribute more to us security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . tel aviv , america ’s president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . his erratic statements offer little insight into what sort of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that , when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs .
in 2009 , entrepreneurship accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in chile , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us – whose firms are the largest r & d investor in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice that of japanese firms . globally , multinational firms are the largest business-sector investors in the us and other countries . for example , multinational firms , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same as a decade earlier . and american multinational corporations still locate roughly 84 % of their r & d activity in the us , often in innovation clusters around the world . but business investment as a share of gdp has translated into rather little in the us during the past decade , while it has risen fast in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in their cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to official statistics . given that the share of urban dwellers in just over 18 % was still headed to about 18 % just under 30 years ago , this is an impressive breakthrough . but it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries at a similar stage of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking discrepancy between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , both big and small , lack any sign of meaningful urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization ; now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of its labor force , whose income derives mainly from non-farm business .
today , iraq may be on the brink of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran , under its new and more radical president , is moving irresistibly towards possessing nuclear capacity . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , with the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the near-combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments amount to paving the way for new interpretations . implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to the chaos and the rise of fundamentalism .
latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula do not have the wherewithal to letting chávez lead in the way . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic leverage , because things began to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . last january , lula visited israel with a strand of eminent brazilian business and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . this made it easier for lula , above all , for lula to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , as was the case recently with march 2008 , when he backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador that killed farc commander , raul reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on drug dealers in mexico , the unrelenting offensive that underlines the precedent set by uribe in dealing with the farc , was also helped because economic growth has muted domestic opposition .
before our eyes , the tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which the relevant actors and their purposes are clear . the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych disbanded the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , it chose to have ukraine enter a customs union with russia , in exchange for the stationing of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seems to have achieved his political aim , namely to bring ukraine , which had drifting toward europe during the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is not known is how much more behaves this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – it will end .
most experts agree that the global treaty of cyberspace would be politically impossible ( though russia and china made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal covenants , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and a broadly shared expectation of correct behaviors among a group ( which creates a common law ) . though the number of players has increased from the original age of 15 to 25 , most eu countries do not have a voice . in sum , these constraints can vary from global , plurilateral , to bilateral . but there is a larger question lurking behind the osce : can indeed restrict the behavior of state ?
such considerations should guide the choice of what comes after the european stability pact . to be sure , monetary policy also has redistributive effects . independent central banks may occasionally experience a pain by politicians ; but at least they might be used as scapegoats when necessary-, a role whose political advantage outweigh the costs of losing control to a familiar one . such considerations should guide the choice of what comes after the european stability pact . on the other hand , monetary-policy policies provide a much more awkward , indirect , and imprecise route to choosing winners and losers than fiscal policy does .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on the basis of longer-term economic considerations , credit and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risks of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters the equity and real-estate markets . in contrast to the american savings glut , china suffered no liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . thus , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than firm demand , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . the government was overly generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and overwhelmed by fears of the adverse effect of falling asset prices on economic growth , became overly cautious in dealing with bubbles when they reemerged . indeed , in recent months , china ’s housing prices have skyrocketing .
now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as guardian of the secular state and in strengthening the government ’s control of the judiciary . better yet , ataturk ’s vision is hard to imagine . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also extended into the education system , with the introduction of a markedly different religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made lessons from continuing to teach him the country ’s arabic obligatory in school . erdogan believes that by exercising turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mediation capacity for mediation , he will reclaim the burden of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peace and security in the mashreq .
accordingly , both he and giscard d’estaing created the council of the european council ( comprising the heads of european governments ) , which is now a key player in the european union ’s institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of currency integration , which came to fruition a generation later . as a result , he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . change for the better could emerge simply from practical initiatives , not from sunday ’s speeches . thus , european integration had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , not by decree .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that the political conditions are certain to stabilize as soon as the period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship widens again from a new , very soft on april 12 deadline or beyond . for britain , the prospects are suddenly becoming much clearer and better than they were at any time since june 2016 .
it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ “ the united nations ” of europe ” has remained so ambivalent , if not intentionally ambiguous , to be effective . can the most determined pro-integration europeans leave the pack without being paralyzed by a islamist-leaning coalition ? to be sure , an iranians “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu on what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a major setback and challenges institutional , political , and even scientific nature . after iranians “ no , ” ” ” can the union find salvation within nato the eu be thought of as a “ coalition of the willing ” ?
the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be dropped dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is also required is a dose of realism . indeed , terrorism is and will remain one of this era ’s scourges . we can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , for the same time that it is as open a network and an idea , as it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but one that has been one .
failing that , the left will come to power , reversing years of reform and progress . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . mexico ’s own skillful success on rebuilding opec ( to boost the value of its oil exports ) contributed to good performance as the determination to hang on to and even widen the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . but a currency board will also help kick-start financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms that were starved of capital-starved students by the experiences of recurrent crises and bad credits . mexico ’s economy has had quite well a few years ago ; not very hard to make it to having a booming america next door and great liquidity in global capital markets .
such assistance will not yield immediate results , but awareness of the medium term – which implies readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also a mark of the end of the liberal order . fighting al qaeda , therefore , is not a war ; it is a crime . it entails a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . people stuck between a lost past and a future still do not gain the assistance they need . it is partly in self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law under challenging circumstances and partly a constructive effort to redress the underlying causes of frustration .
groups such as the syrian national council are loose associations of individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . however , these groups have limited leverage over local opposition groups inside syria that are equally diverse and divided . it is among these groups that have gained a leadership foothold by radical islamists . fear of another islamist takeover is a second major argument against toppling assad , but the longer he remains in power , the higher the gains that islamists have made on the ground . these are groups criticizing the obama administration and others for his failure to present the united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be seen as a viable alternative to the status quo .
but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of us regulators , and policymakers on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite , mostly on wall street , nearly everything the upside from the housing boom . the downside was shoved to the rest of society , especially the relatively uneducated and under-funded , which now has lost its houses , their jobs , hopes for their children , or everywhere the above . but it is a price to pay for it all that is needed : these people paid no and no more . at the same time , these people were not caused by the crisis , but by the end of the day .
at the same time , a political crisis is impeding the government ’s own pursuit of difficult reforms . french leaders show a inability to communicate effectively or apply past experiences in analyzing current threats . the unemployment rate stands at about 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . instead , they plow down to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles about small controversies . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial-scale output market output has created large trade deficits and undermined the competitiveness of small and medium-size firms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , there has been some cause for celebration : extreme poverty , finally , in retreat . to that end , much remains to be done . but it is high time for india to raise its aspirations to do so . escaping abject destitution , while an important milestone , is not the same thing as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security . in 2012 , two decades after the government initiated a set of market-oriented economic reforms aimed at opening the economy , the country ’s official poverty rate reached 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 .
south korean political leaders also need to avoid being swept away by this intensifying war rhetoric . once upon a time , the march to war had begun , there was little room left for diplomacy . but why should n’t america ’s top us diplomat hold significant sway over military matters ? yet , far from making space for peace-making , trump ’s adviser sebastian maryka , recently said to the us press that , “ the notion that us secretary of defense tillerson is conducting a debate on military matters is simply nonsensical . ” if that does n’t change any time soon , the us may , having then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ” so far ?
alemán , too , faces a revolt in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the liberal wing party . if alemán blocs montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes it to form another political party , ortega ’s chances for winning the presidency rise sharply . while a three-way race is sheer speculation on this point , it seems clear that he offers ortega the best of all the electoral world . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a hard dilemma : are it preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or backing a new democratic power and risk of helping ortega to win ? it is so tempting for ortega to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interest .
friedman and keynes agreed that successful macroeconomic management was indispensable – that a private economy on its own may well succumb to unbearable instability ­and that a powerful but limited government intervention was essential to sustaining stability . but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private-sector investment stable ; for friedman ’s crucial was to keep the money supply -- the amount of purchasing power in a readily spendable form in the hands of firms and households -- in a stable economy . a gap of opinion , which rested on different judgments on the way the world worked that ( and ultimately was ) could ( and was ) resolve through empirical research , you might say . a relatively minor one , more technical differences of the means , might be asked . and you might have been half right .
the prospect of america ’s currency tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward strengthened monetary stimulus . the result has been the dollar ’s appreciation against the euro and yen . the euro stands at 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen has depreciated by 14 % against the dollar . but , as speculators ponder and move out of commodities today in anticipation of a likely increase in us interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to push next year at a price drop forward for today . a fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , has already been doing business .
at the same time , i was aware that the un human rights council had turned israel ’s repeated condemnations during the last two years , but had devoted little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction by the council gave more credence to those who believes that the un ’s supreme court of human rights is inherently anti-israel . but it managed to work with the council ’s president to guarantee an agreement he felt confident would permit the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as to allow his team to address actions taken by the two parties in a conflict . i resolved that i would not be able to make the un mission on these grounds . i am aware that goldstone , a devoted and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer , and advocate , shared similar concerns when he initially drew a closer look .
during the early cold war , communism and the former soviet union had significant soft power . many communists led opposition against fascism in europe , with many believed that communism was the waves of the future . but soviet soft power was undercut by the exposure of stalin 's crimes in 1956 and by repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . while in theory communism aimed at establishing a class judiciary , lenin 's heirs retained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous whistlets . the net effect of these brutal actions was a widespread loss of faith .
coronado , california – most people no longer think of charles darwin as the psychologist . in fact , his job has , at least in the world , revolutionized the field . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution influenced the shape of our minds as profoundly as it has the shape of our bodies . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding before darwin . yet even great philosophers , plato , aristotle , hobbes , cervantes , paris , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – were able to describe only current mental events and behavior ; they could not explain their causes .
indeed , evaluation of any research project ’s impact is difficult . when salvador ’s luria , my university ’s microbiology professor , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon that could everyone who had congratulated him on the award . even preeminent researchers can understate the significance of their findings at a time when they are obtaining them . it has depicted an elderly couple at a google breakfast table . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , has highlighted in a thoughtful editorial in the newspaper science : “ one may be able to discern good science as it happens , but significant science may be viewed only in a rear-view mirror .
the new us legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . the american tax code was already dangerously long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it is wrong to pay a lower tax rate than his secretary of state . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is the key economic problem in the united states , with those at the upper quartile having received nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . and , in fact , when it came fully up ( in 2027 ) , it would raise taxes on the upper house of america ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) .
california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has sought to resolve this question with novel legislation , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies the us statutory criteria by determining how to categorize workers . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many kinds of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , interact directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 cover the more than 400,000 workers driving platform companies like the ride-sharing service of uber and lyft and a food-delivery firm doordash . a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be classified as autonomous contractors , or as platform companies with which they have employment contracts , and for whose customers they are providing the services . california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has attempted to resolve this question with just one new legislation , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies the us legal criteria in determining how to categorize workers . applying the
the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths to suggest that more than interest rates are at stake . making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of the rbi act , allowing it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on matters of public concern . the government is particularly unhappy with the rbi ’s measures to clear india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a huge volume of non-performing assets , and the threat of risk spreading in other parts of the financial system . such measures are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend directly to politically well-connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can not come right and say that .
not that abe ’s 2012 campaign had lacked ambition ; he established a bold economic-reform agenda and promised to bolster japan ’s global influence . to be sure , abe did not face the kind of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama have actually done . but , after two decades of leaders who , except junichiro koizumi ’s promise of little and achieved fewer of it , japanese voters have little reason to expect that abe will follow through on his pledges . as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well be the harshest electoral opponent of any one . just asking former french president nicolas sarkozy to return to the imf , just to one that day , and to initiate a dialogue between chinese president nicolas sarkozy .
in many such patients , a doubling of the plavix dose , and a point-of-care test checking a point-of-care test to insure suppression can overwhelm the lack of response . this variation in the genome is exceptionally common , present at roughly 30 % of individuals of euroancestry and well over 50 % of those of asian ancestry . the story of interferon , given every year for patients of the hepatitis c , is especially striking . those individuals carrying at least one after a gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize plavix at 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . there are alternative drugs , like prasugrel or ticagrelor , which can be used instead of a plavix to circumvent the problem .
repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where the drug cartels are tearing apart the country , as well as america , the world with its largest source of demand . west african banks , too , would be heavily affected , became during the past year ’s main transit point for south american drugs directed at europe . if chávez ’s venezuela became a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt well beyond the country ’s borders . after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while at peace divides them .
the key , however , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . at its heart is the realization that reducing poverty requires bringing both rapid economic growth and targeted investments directed toward the poorest of the poor . rapid economic growth is intended to rely on the private sector , including foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . so the budget promotes critical areas of market-oriented reform and growth promotion , including measures to strengthen the financial sector , encourage exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . the second pillar of reducing poverty is targeted investment for the poor , particularly from the rural poor .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism could well play a direct role in russian president vladimir putin ’s own hands . in the middle east , countries attempt to figure out whom they should be contained . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran and israel . to israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clear with iran . the struggle to prioritize those threats is not exclusive to the west .
cambridge – america ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , is hemmed in on all sides . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are merely a forum for making unilateral us demands , how could mnuchin , who , like his boss , lacks any government experience , persuade other countries that have adherence to shared rules and norms , like open trade , are in everyone ’s interest ? after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments that mnuchin ’s predecessors oversaw . domestically , it fashion caught between the pledges that it made ( such as “ “ mnuchin rule ” that taxes will not be cut for the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts to the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( which make the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international stage , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have hard times .
cambridge – how should one evaluate the accord reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the accord erupted there erupted . some avid environmentalists were disillusioned that the agreement did not commit firmly to reducing global warming to 1.5 º fahrenheit above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would have lacked credibility , at least for now . what emerged in paris was actually preferable to being able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school for the first time in history . muslim professionals , for their part , began moving to the brink of ghettos . muslim benevolent organizations , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving into social-life areas , where the failed state dismally , particularly its own education . unfortunately , they were educated at the religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . with discrimination soon spilled over into class lines , growing numbers of india ’s muslims began to look for ties to muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than are state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . with a fraction of the soes ’ resources , private firms employ much of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , owing to their superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by actually paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss the protesting workers , not in zhejiang and guangdong ’s liberal provinces , but in socialist bastions in the northeastern state of manipur , is a puzzle . the government can not pay unemployed workers their pensions , because socialism has bankrupted its finance . workers do not protest menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but in no job in socialist shenyang .
the average winning margin among the top eight of the world cup national teams has steadily decreased , from within the framework of more than two goals in the 1950 ’s to around 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , the 1970 ’s , and the 1980 ’s , and only 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the decrease in winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup rose from $ 16 to 32 national teams by many of these new and rather inexperienced . but , whereas we can see inequality and exclusion in club-level football , the reverse has been true for competitions among national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning the european championship , as malta ( serbia ) , its red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third partition ) once did . the same is true of any of the games played out at the final tournament , rather than only of those among the top eight national teams .
at present , us ten-year treasuries offer more than triple the yield on three-month us treasuries . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost completely . in fact , its budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue-chip us for which us interest rates remain low but its gdp growth amgst along at around 2 % . in the omb document , its real interest rate on three-month us treasuries is expected to stay below 1 % in the decade ahead . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , an pegged rate of long-term growth , as us administration forecasts , would be historically anomalous .
but that antagonism reflected berlusconi ’s personalization of politics , as well as an institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s most recent activism was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 with a proportional rule . under the new electoral rules , seats allotted to parties in proportion to the vote , but a special-purpose provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the largest votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . that outcome would accelerate if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was intended to distance himself from politics in the approaching electoral term . the new electoral system shifts politicians ’ incentive , and might induce a return to shifting coalitions and volatile governments .
while the current rate of 7 % is comfortably lower than the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . and it has had some success – to the detriment of the rate of economic growth . but there is more to be done to assess wen ’s stimulus than it is the growth/reform trade-off . given the need for further economic restructuring – and given long-term demographic trends that will reduce the labor supply – pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to recur . this is fine for li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading , not an unsustainable credit-led growth model , is the key to achieving high-income status .
the climate challenge demands a much deeper collaboration between the public and the private sector to increase green investment . we need to ensure that our infrastructure is built to cope with the heightened impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for unlocking climate risks that investment projects pose . here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help by adaptation in a number of ways . what is needed is a infrastructure to cope with the heightened impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for de-closing climate risks that investment projects present . large and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be affected by a changing climate .
“ over half of this battle takes place on the media battlefield , ” [ for ] us in the media battle in a race to the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” the speaker was not some public relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s senior lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists have skillfully adapted to fighting wars in today ’s ’s media age , but for the most part between them , the american people , and the governments of other democracies did not . consider the fact that they have their own organized media relationships committees , which aim to manipulate elite opinion . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks using any means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of free people .
of course , exemplary and punitive damages in order to deter conduct inimical to a community do exist in its statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damaging awards as an instrument for controlling behavior , especially of businessmen . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian claims on the ecological tort , and human-rights abuses before american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who behaved negligently or with impunity . all of this helps explain why sulpicio lines , the owner of the star princess , have remained in commercial operations despite its many lapses in the process . simply put , the philippine courts have not made it too costly for it to sustain iron-worthy vessels .
all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angry . but , beyond fueling voter anger , trump ’s attacks on other eu member states are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – the result that the us will saddamn the southern eurozone countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash that have severely curtailed their competitiveness within the european system . america ’s congress is pass on legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that take part in the project , despite the fact that these firms are contractually obliged to see labour through . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who is now chairing the nord stream , america ’s ambassador to germany has behaved more like an “ occupation officer ” than as a us diplomat .
all have renounced controls at their shared borders , and adopted a common visa policy for un citizens of un member states . and it is unquestionably convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at each border one crosses . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of tracking national and eu territory without border checks . it certainly has a pass on the handling of the boat from zurich to oslo as a domestic travel boat , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrival . indeed , this convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have registered itself out of the schengen agreement .
a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation is critical to combating terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by enhancing data privacy regulations , rather than developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . defining such a strategy might help europe identify the areas for mutual accommodation . europeans have become inter-dependent on such firms , all of which are emerging in countries or america .
the us federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these inherently smaller lenders to bankruptcy . so , too , in the us , the smaller banks that were heavily financing small and medium-size firms have been all but neglected . yet lending would end up somehow inhibited , even if the banks were healthier . after all , small firms were relying on collateral-based lending , and real estate ’s value , its main form of collateral , is still down one-third from its pre-crisis level . just adding liquidity , while pursuing current austerity policies , will not re-ignite the spanish economy .
the world learned that there was a lesson from the 1973 arab-israel war . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands to punish them for their support for israel . when the dust settled , it turned out that america , dutch , and other importers all had suffered around the same level of shortcoming and paid equally damaging high prices . but oil destined for the u.s. and the netherlands had been shifted to other countries like japan , while oil destined for other countries found its way to the u.s. and the netherlands . oil is a fungible commodity , with markets bright at a common price .
the world caught a spooked world by graphic images of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . but both the bullets and the clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , the fear is rising , too . that crackdown continues under cover of darkness , official action . the monks have retreated , and horrifying normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and ex-capital .
indeed , until the mid-1990s , the us government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its inclination to succumb to populist demands and vested interests has accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s currency union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain its current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions for those who break the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that these sanctions should include the expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never being discussed in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . likewise , of course , it was it ever debated that greece would face its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country economically successful after the oil-price shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , huge fiscal deficits , rising debts , a collapsing currency , and an inadequate infrastructure .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and so on . these range from flush toilets , automobiles , electricity , long-distance communication , and so forth . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that sustained growth will open for all of humankind , we should reflect on how far we have came along . in the late roman empire , only a affluent aristocrat were able to buy a nomenclator – a slave tasked with memorizing the names and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having an elementary smartphone is preferable to the entourage of dozens , or even hundreds , of nomenclator-like assistants .
as a result , china will once again become a largely inward-looking superpower , one that – precisely for this reason – pursues its foreign-policy interests entirely in an unsentimental manner . the vital interest that chinese policy guiding china ’s policies is intra-party modernization , its ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( which comprises taiwan ) . for the long term , these interests also are unlikely to change for a long time . that may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the upcoming century of the us-led international order . insofar as it is concerned , the united states will not replace itself as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role .
meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some say it became substantially undervalued . the global financial crisis that followed the east asia crisis laid down a number of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar – to which argentina ’s peso was tied – increased sharply . wages and prices fell , but not nearly enough to enable argentina to compete efficiently , especially given that many of the country ’s agricultural goods , which represent argentina ’s natural comparative advantage , are facing high hurdles in entering those of wealthy countries ’ markets . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to do so .
making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying constraints , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks . yet the chinese authorities do not seem to have learned the lesson of either episode . not only have their failure to mitigate the risks ; underscored in the meltdown of 2007 , that new retail investors are introducing into the market ; in fact , they exacerbate them , by enabling , and even encouraging , those investors ’ stockpiling leverage through margin purchases . when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with cuts in consumption contributing to falling employment and private investment . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than they have for , say , that generated balance-sheet distress in the financial sector .
new york – seventy years ago this month , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . when shocks to the system take place , agents are unaware of what to come next . but i doubt that it has indeed . it is a shock , not the adjustments to it , that spread the whole system . faced with that uncertainty , they are not readmerely their spending ; instead , they retreat from spending ; instead , they retreat from expenditures until the mists clear sent the economy into a tailspin .
besides , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists seem to agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrialized countries with an aging population , should be concerned about pursuing their policies ’ sustainability . taxes on more speculative activity might spur banks to concentrate more attention on achieving their key societal role in providing lending . america ’s financial-services industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be imposed on it . the financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society .
but public reaction to them , together with the recent oil-price spikes , may well account for such changing market psychology . so , while these things will happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps policymakers should heed ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as he does to those of bernanke in his attempt to make sense about the direction of the world ’s stock markets . indeed , economists might dislike some of the publicly held thought and how it interacts with price changes , global novelty stories , and speculative dynamics . doing so implies , after all , that it is less predictable for economic events ( and economists less omniscient ) than might be willing to imagine . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad and peres may precipitate such change .
new york – in their efforts to pass the bailout plan on america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but , for most asians , the economic armageddon remains far greater . the asian financial crisis ten years ago brought the banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . the wall street exploded against the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread across east asia , with the ripple effect of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil did .
and , to know that , one must be as relevant to what one does not know as to what one does . to be sure , plato ’s purpose in the dialogue is not to fix piety : if socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by the euthyphro , he does not publicize that doing so . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance of a piety , and that , in fact , euthyphro , euthyphro makes no real sense that prosecuting his father is in fact the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination is critical in any decision . one ought to learn the moral character of any action one is contemplating .
this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages . moreover , water scarcity means food scarcity . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , and more than 2 billion lack adequate sanitation . in north africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions between farmers and herders . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with short-term drinking water , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population .
emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping policy change , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . crucially , emerging economies must contend with the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policy shifts , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is just a first step . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled the brazilian infrastructure-focused research firms to pioneer over $ 9,000 technology projects , including the government ’s design of tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency has soared , putting brazil ’s crop yields at par excellence in those in developed economies .
but the magnitude of europe ’s confrontation implies the urgent need for far more decisive reform . second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g-20 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s meeting in cannes last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established rules for fiscal discipline , and implemented a range of labor – and product-market reforms . to make it meaningful , the message needs to step back with the us action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that they will be accountable for meeting their commitments in full . we have confidence that europe will act together to meet these challenges and continue to support such an effort , because european stability and growth matter for us all .
they must work with the bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their prioritized their efforts lest they end up as anything smaller than the number of people . but not talking about priorities makes the necessity to prioritize . refusing to prioritize , cope primarily with some of its most publicized problems , is wrong . instead , the choices are only becoming less clear-cut , less democratic and less efficient . whenever we prioritize , we say not just where we should do more ( which is good ) but also where we should not increase our efforts ( which are considered cynical ) .
this is true in most countries – including in the us , including in the us , where levels of inequality are among the highest in the world – although a handful of countries , like norway , where people have a more realistic view , are emerging as the world . the point is not to get lost on unending comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful discussion of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of setting clear targets . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be a better informed decision . correcting these misperceptions will transform people ’s views of redistributive policies . as it stands , surveys show that humans tend to believe that inequality is lower than it really is , but still higher than that which they would consider the ideal .
putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as something of a tragedy , but for china it was the greatest geostrategic gifts imaginable . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary claim for guidance is that he put an end to the penury of the former post-soviet years – to go ahead with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . likewise , denying any bank that does business with , say , russia ’s banks or socializes america ’s access to the american financial system would generate the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . indeed , those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy . third , obama should emphasize – and perhaps never do – the chinese with its stake in eurasian stability .
for the past two years , things have been quite different . against this backdrop , not surprisingly , prices have soared in the financial sector . many financial firms have sapped their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have gone out of business altogether . london city , lower manhattan , and some other centers have become money machines that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity investors immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me have spent much of our time persuading them to recycle part of their returns to their old schools .
the horse-trading around his base has been intense . in a february meeting , the us ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about reports that china had offered kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion should the kyrgyz shut down the american base . “ conspicuously flustered ( the china ambassador at the time ) temporarily lost its capacity to speak russia and began spluttering in the chinese for the tacit aide diligently , taking notes right behind it , ” according to a confidential america ’s diplomatic cables , acquired through web site wikileaks.org . both diplomats had been conversing in russia . indeed , the policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians , who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan .
but , ultimately , the best way to tackle them , and prevent their resurgence , is by ensuring that economic opportunities are available to those determined to try . it is time that france begins questioning its economic model . in its recent statement on burning suburbs , chirac proclaimed : “ we will need to draw all the lessons of this crisis , when the time has come and command was restored , and with much of brazil and lucidity . ” but those lessons make this a more far-reaching reform than chirac ever implausible . moreover , social help with no hope of an individual improvement is not sufficient .
we entrust them with driving our country toward new levels of growth and development , which is why we now appoint a cabinet minister of its age , and forge a special youth council . we can not , and will not , enable this within our country . we believe they are faster than us at acquiring and processing knowledge because they grew up with the tools and techniques that we lacked at the age of them . we also learned from the hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and even religious bigotry only fuel rage fires . we must study , teach , and practice tolerance – and instill it in our children , both through education and our own example .
we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates generate massive expansion of credit . to ask policymakers in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or public investment by the immense magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes is to enter reality . in higher-priced countries than they did in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can generate nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and it is absurd to try it . how will the tightening of fiscal policy be induced to turn to more than 100 % of gdp in a credit-fueled spending task in only three years , as happened in spain in 2004-2007 and in a democracy sporting fiscal surplus as ireland is ?
in the past , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would together regularly press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . nowadays , however , france and germany remain less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration seems less strong . but the bottom line is that constitutional amendments can be conducted only through unanimity , and that a number of member governments , starting with the uk , would resist any overtly federalist agenda . as a result , the french government has been reluctant to incite a clash with the british if there is any chance of a softer compromise in the future . the problem is that this form of evasion conspiracy might not work , and fischer ’s relevance is that he is the first us government minister in office to say so in public , despite pretends to say so in a personal capacity .
enthusiasts describe this as the new brand of advanced industrial policies , which can help push brazil beyond its conventional role as commodity exporter . it is true that critics refer to it as a misguided effort that will produce only more distortions and retard growth . but rodrik and hausmann are also showing that getting such policies implies exacting imperatives . in my opinion , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by the university of dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard , is powerful . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address those markets ’ failures .
there is little that can be done to alter the gender imbalances in a particular place . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment ; let alone populism more broadly . but evolutionary psychology that stresses females ’ competition may add another dimension to our understanding of those phenomena while helping us to forecast when and where civil strife might erupt . those among indigenous populations with the lowest income and educational levels will always be worse off if they have to compete with a large number of young male immigrants . but while this problem can not be “ solved , ” namely understanding that it might help curb harm , not least by enabling leaders to dodge policies that are either not useful or that will exacerbate tensions .
judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of an economic relationship . while i published a 2014 book on the us-china economic relationship , i would be the first to concede that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess the behavior of national economies . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling how the world ’s two largest economies are sinking into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency does meet at one of the extremes of relationship dynamics – in which the world ’s two partners draw more from one another than from its own inner powers . new haven – never ending well in personal relations .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of the european union ; in an era of object to globalization , it is america . this is the point at which many begin to use the language that defines europe by distinguishing ; indeed , the american being -- europe as anti-america . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european culture and america 's commerce , the european profundity , and the american materialism -- these are ancient and fatigued themes . but how , then , is this identity to be defined ?
ironically , trump summoned the same robert lighthizer , his veteran of japan ’s trade battles in the 1980s to lead the charge against china . with that trade diversion likely to move into higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers would find themselves hit to the functional equivalent of a us tax hike . unfortunately , lighthizer seem as clueless about the generally conventional macro argument today as he was back . in both episodes , america has been in denial , bordering on delusion . without increasing national saving – highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china to america ’s other trade partners .
the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for europe , in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength . hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , has strong majorities at all the executive and the legislative level , give it a rare opportunity to act . if it can renege on the european model at home , it will be able to project its success much more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in a reversal of the eu ’s confidence and faith , particularly among the young generation . finally , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france maintains more a global role than germany has yet to gain . while the united nations security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a critical legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member .
a third challenge , instrumental to meeting the first two , will be to foster regional arab solidarity . deep reforms , centered on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas , are needed to turn the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force demands . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the “ arab world ” of the arab world . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated a strong sense of identity , common language , and much shared history combines arabs together , despite vast differences of natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else can one explain that the act of revolt in tunisia led to the popular revolts of north africa in the arabian peninsula ?
america 's largest tech firms are beginning to compete for talents by offering paternity leave . america 's giant tech firms are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . who has a boss or a company that better promotes reconciling work and family responsibilities ? which has the far more flexible jobs ? attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift . so , in the process , only a third of male millennial men believe in traditional gender roles .
but it also depends on a government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for a shortfall of aggregate demand , and on pursuing the reforms and investments that drive long-term growth prospects . several possibilities , not mutually exclusive , come to mind . subdued wage growth boosts competitiveness and under-utilized labor and capital . how fast this will occur , in part , depend on the private sector ’s inherent flexibility and its dynamism . but it also depends on a government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for the sake of reducing aggregate demand – and on pursuing the reforms and investments that drive long-term growth prospects .
“ cities of tents are filling up with the sacrifices of the economic crisis , ” read one headline a month ago on front of a massachusetts circulation american newspaper . it is wrong to assume , as some of the “ ultra-free ” marketers are doing , that the absence of “ social protection ” actually makes you stronger . by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are being investigated through the european eyes of the us , the extreme individualism that constitutes an essential component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . journalists report the tragic stories of middle-class americans are losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk without some form of social protection . who will be able to pay for your expensive cancer treatment if you lose the health-insurance policy that came with your job ?
warsaw : recently poland experienced a typically typical – and typically unfinished – political debate . because of its dominance in the parliament , the postcommunists ’s intransigence on this point has forced poland ’s other political parties to participate in drafting poland ’s new constitution to kowtow to its position . it has focused on whether “ free ” polish education is meant to be made a constitutional right . only by raising the issue to a polish level , say the postcommunists , can the guarantee of free and equal access to education sustain them . free or , as its nationalist advocates prefer to call it , a “ not paid for ” education , means educating the country ( but not to private schools ) .
at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional water sources – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . the sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation , and the implementation of renewable sources can be addressed effectively . the private sector also has a role to play in driving a shift toward unconventional water sources of unconventional water – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . best practices should be clarified , innovations identified and tested , and knowledge and experience sharing . sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
beyond a ceasefire in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , this has been essentially an inconsequential objective , particularly given the massive , ill-informed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases that america has enacted over the past six months . as a result , targeting china has enormous policymaking appeal . american negotiators are fixated on a rate of targeted reductions of some $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year-long timeframe . so , what might be achieved as a result of the may 19 deal ?
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions of people out of poverty has accompanied widening income disparities , as well as severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , and those that have so far benefited the region economically from rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being adversely affect acute problems like air and water pollution . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift . asia needs a strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-driven growth , which implies the need to rebalance sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower yet enviable levels – and to boost the quality of its services .
berkeley – a central insight from macroeconomics is the one that became familiar to john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all nowadays produced goods and services and types of labor if there is equally large excess demand for financial assets . because industries suffering from insufficient demand shed workers , industries benefit from the surplus demand that they hire . the economy rapidly rebalances itself , and thus returns to full employment , and does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better aligned with current consumer preferences . and this fundamental fact is the source of great difficulty here . the normal supply gap and demand in some subset of today ’s produced commodities does not pose a severe problem , for it equates excess demand with another that today ’s manufactured commodities .
initially , russian liberals welcomed the case of budanov as an indication that the country might treat accusations that war crimes had been perpetrated in chechnya . last month , however , the us military prosecutor accept colonel budanov ’s argument that he was temporarily insane when he was killed to a girl , thereby excommunicated budanov on charges of his role in spreading his assassination . the prosecution then began to speak out of a young girl as chechen sniper , from a family of snipers . ( rape charges , for some ambiguous reason , had already dropped . ) outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov had dismissed a prosecutor who seemed prepared to abrogate the patriotic “ hero ” on all of his remaining charges .
the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on the measures that were formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional state of congressional politics that characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum . once it takes place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – through necessity , not choice – become excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan needs to recognize that , during this protracted era of rapid monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation movements have been distorted , aggravating wealth inequality . so action addresses imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax and job creation .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in rethinking how large business worked , and when the powers of such firms were bound to be constrained . in retrospect , breakthrough laws – not only to the us , but also internationally – were the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . prior to the 1890 ’s , big business was widely thought to be more efficient and broadly modern than small businesses . most saw the consolidation of smaller firms to become fewer , big firms as stabilizing developments that rewarded success , and allowing more productive investment . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill of finance , of which the american senate is about to pass , is something similar – and long overdue , for banking .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down , i wrote a letter ? i do not mean a email or single text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to an instrument or a personal assistant . no , i mean the old-fashioned “ honorable donald ” ” ” ” or “ dear hillary clinton ” letter . the reason , i ask , is that 65,000 people did , in fact , write such letters to barack obama every week , when she was serving as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a team of white house staffers would select ten letters every day for a pass along to a president who then would respond personally that evening .
they might tell the pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do just what they did in each of the previous four elections – a vote for a party that proclaimed “ every man for itself ” in its old days . then , in 1992 , john major ran for re-election amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and a aftermath of rapid inflation . economic determinists predicted that he did not stand a chance . today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism was refuted once and for all .
transactional leadership is made more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style is much more likely to emerge in periods of rapid and relentless social and political change . in some ways , transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style is more likely to appear in periods of quick , dissolving social and political change . american foreign-policy creation , by contrast , is strongly compromised by institutions like congress and the us constitution . but even the american constitution is ambiguous about the power of the us congress and the president on foreign policy . the transformational aims and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa can make a big difference in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization initiated the plan of tropical forestry action , the first-ever global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the most recent international efforts to stop it – an initiative known as to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more like effective . but if world leaders are serious about stopping forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + to replace it with a mechanism to address the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . indeed , far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable results of these two agreements ’ efforts have , ironically , been the production of reams of costly consultancy news reports . redd + was formed as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement governing its implementation is expected to be in rio de janeiro during the united nations climate change conference in paris .
donald payne , a prominent member of america ’s house council of foreign affairs , and ana gomes , a member of the european parliament from portugal and the head of the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie un humanitarian aid more closely with ethiopia ’s conduct for press freedom and other welfare . it could also destabilize an already-fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . britain and some other european governments have reacted to the post-election crackdown by temporarily rewarding aid . but ethiopia presents a dilemma over anyone interested in human rights and democracy . cutting off aid might have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of more than 80 million people .
that is why the health-care industry must play a significant role in efforts to tackle the challenges of population aging . to keep people working longer , it is critical to keep them healthy . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts towards conditions that are prevalent among older patients , including chronic illnesses like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , glaucoma , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important in seeking ways to stem more effectively the deterioration of people ’s productivity and independence , by preserving their feelings of physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and building . old age must be viewed not simply as the unavoidable stage of life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive .
such initiatives bring together a broad range of public - and private-sector actors , including multilateral organizations , to fund deep environmental and social projects . the second big transition-financing opportunity lies in incipient financing , or collaborative schemes that raise the availability of private capital for public goods . the tropical landscapes financing facility , developed in indonesia in partnership with the un environment program , is a good example . the initiative brings together private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits . moreover , the closing approach helps scale up and de-risk projects and optimize their financing .
emerging markets were originally tied to this distress only when foreign investors started withdrawing their money . then the panic spread to credit , money markets , and currency markets exposed the vulnerabilities in many developing countries that had experienced credit booms and borrowed in foreign currencies . but even the better-performing ones , such as brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at risk of a hard landing . indeed , many emerging-market markets are now at risk of a severe recession and severe external and financial crisis . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large short-term foreign-currency liabilities have been the most fragile of them .
until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed implausible . and , if a fresh referendum were held , british voters probably needed to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining within the eu , because no one will dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . this would foil financial-market speculators who have been betting on withdrawal , and are good news for both the uk and the eu . almost three years ago , british voters were really unaware of what they were doing when they decided by a narrow majority to leave the eu . but interventions by bercow and the eu opened the entire new game , dramatically increasing the odds that brexit might not happen .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path of reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in its history . mao zedong died two years earlier , in 1976 , and newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping out his vision of economic development and modernization on the third plenum of the eleventh central committee held in december 1978 . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls was relaxed . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself as an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were provided market incentives .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policy , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states military might have been strengthened , and iran , despite being bogged down as a member of the so-called “ “ axis of evil ” member states , has been catapulted toward regional hegemony . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel therefore translated into an open struggle for regional dominance . the result has been the emergence of some astonishing , if not bizarre , alliance : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas and the self-backed , shia-dominated iraq challenge israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states all feeling existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . iran could never achieve that on its own , certainly not in these short periods .
in the postcommunist social-democratic revolutions ( less often noticed than the politics and economic upheavals ) families and local communities undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church became too engaged in politics to help . fascination with liberal freedom rose in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . old social structures were destroyed , socialist customs and habits went out overnight , by former norms and unwritten rule . to be free but lonely , especially when codependency habits are ingrained . the people were left to withstand the wales of change alone .
the crisis also must not become an excuse for creating new institutional formats that endanger the delicate balance among different eu institutions , the balance that – through the appropriate adjustments – has been proved by the test of time . nor should today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s uncertainties become an excuse to call into question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process . of course , the crisis emphasizes the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . enlargement of the eu into the sphere of freedom and democracy , of peace , stability and prosperity , particularly of south-east european societies , is in the interests of every european citizen . we need a final and full ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger europe that we need .
its motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it take its way to remove maharashtra , india ’s main , sugar-producing state , from its upa in the upcoming national assembly election . this goal explains another policy reversal as well . a commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s purported policy of economic mismanagement has been its sugar-price policy . powerful , sugarcane cooperatives , led by prime upa ’s followers , have supposedly drove the government to mend extravagant prices and to write off sugar-based farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production . instead of eliminating such a system , as was forecast , modi ’s government augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raised import duties on sugar , in order to discourage foreign competition , and raised the sugar-based ethanol percentage , which must blended its petrol .
berlin – the german social democrats ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer treat it as a typical populist crisis . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will have lost more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . but with the spd ’s decline , germany is shifting from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin drivers of german politics since the end of world war ii .
russia ’s people need to be convinced of the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , nobody will suggest nationalization , as happened repeatedly during the eight months that i have been prime minister . most important , if we are to reverse capital flight , the us government must be convinced of individual savers that they can deposit their money safely and withdraw it on the demand side . while russia on its own will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning was clear : it would be better for all parties to maintain that money brought home and invest in the national economy . so , to achieve this end , russia must build a secure and attractive investment climate . how can the government expect to mobilize more domestic investment as long as ordinary russians maintain their savings -- $ 50 billion , on most estimates -- at home ?
for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took to heart , stopping falling into submission by his repressive regime . they realized that the realities of eastern germany were not being set in stone , after all ; that a change was possible that germany ’s brave dissidents and human-rights proponents trapped behind the wall demanded for so long . their commitment against the communist regime ’s injustice is , for me , one of the finest chapters in german history . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 would never have been all but possible . opening hungary ’s borders , which autumn and the seek refuge of eastern german citizens at the german-occupied german-speaking embassies of prague and warsaw , has already shaken the communist and stasi rule to its foundations .
responsibility-sharing , the modern international system ’s foundation for protecting refugees , is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least able to cope . as a result , some – albeit relatively speaking , rather than many – are committing a long and often perilous journey to developed countries . and yet , as they approach the rich world ’s ’s ’s ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive has become increasingly mixed , because manufactured panic at the supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes space for a humane , pragmatic , response . it is time to reboot global efforts to protect refugees . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with the global reach , one that reflects a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , business , development institutions , civil-society groups , beliefs groups , academic , sports , and the arts .
munich – the euro crisis has , so far , been on six phases . it is worth recalling them precisely because it shows how policymakers stumbled along , attempting to lay off fires without keeping an eye on where their handpicked path led them . so far , the sequence has been as follows : the sequence has been as encouraging . at present , markets remain calm ; but that is only the beginning of the seventh phase of a crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . the seventh phase of the crisis is one of strengthened moral hazard , stemming from the run-up in sovereign debt .
second , again , as the skeptics warn , over-claimers rarely pay sanctions for being wrong . from 1985 to 2005 , the boomsters made ten-year projections predicting that exaggerated the chances of large positive changes in either financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as tranquility in the middle east and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . in the same period , their doomsters implemented even more inadequately , exaggerating the odds of negative rates in each of the same places where the boomerangs have accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , thailand , and sudan ) . they assigned the probabilities of up to 70 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized only 12 % of the time . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized only 15 % .
it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member or simply within the wto . the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . france campaigned ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a covert weapon , because the eu would have more to lose it than britain from a break in uk-eu trade relations is flatly wrong . margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services , not just finances , but laws , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and the like – makes eu membership critical . britain would have needed negotiating access to the european single market to its service industries , whereas eu manufacturers would automatically enjoy virtually unconstrained rights to sell whatever they want in britain under the global trade organization .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that , understanding the historic context of the current crisis is critical . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the army and its bureaucracy to check the elected government . in fact , the turkish military , with those supported by the judiciary , explicitly intervened in the civilian government ’s functioning in 1960 , 1971 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time it was ruled by the name of protecting secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their followers to take positions within the bureaucracy and the army .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union dithered . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or the “ grexit ” ) , together with the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union ( emu ) . since then , europeans have lived through a different type of eu . at a deeper level , by contrast , what was at stake was the role of europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country . what had changed that night was germany that europeans had known since the end of world war ii .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab-led history – unlike that practiced by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . in fact , such interventions were typically aimed at empowering a proxy political power over its army and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing a war-resolution mechanism . egypt ’s ’s ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . in late 1965 , egyptian president mohamed nasser deployed 70,000 troops in yemen in order to support a republican coup against royalist forces . despite using the taliban ’s prohibition of chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 and 1967 , the first in the intra-arab conflict – egypt has failed to achieve its goals .
sadly , this norm will still be applied only to very large multinational companies , and news reporting will not be publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential transparency tool . the reform process was spearheaded by oecd countries , and opened up to developing countries only after that initial package was unveiled . it initiated , for example , the sharing between country-by-country taxation authorities reports on such firms ’ profits and on tax payments . no doubt , beps was an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies employed by multinational companies . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group that has called the “ inclusive framework . ”
pass-through firms now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest ratio in a developed country ) . several of these actors are highly large and lucrative , enjoying the same kind of legal benefits as corporations . likewise , while restricting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would expand the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on bad debt financing , it would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital , which are often debt-financed . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would expand the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on bad debt financing , it would raise the tax burden on major investments in physical capital , which are often debt-financed .
at the same time , however , israel insists that there will be no attributes of sovereignty for gaza , and will continue to be guided by existing arrangements covering the vast majority of aspects of security and civilian government . this means that the israeli military will continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . these conditions will rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that would obtain the backing of all factions , including hamas . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the ground strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . israel ’s fallback plan presents the evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation .
indeed , since its first 1980 ’s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in their agricultural employment . in some , such as portugal , malaysia , chile , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , that decline has exceeded 10 % . almost 60 years later , america ’s agricultural employment peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it stands at less than 3 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope that the vote will usher in a period of stability and calm through lending popular legitimacy to the government . to be sure , experimentation would give my party a huge opportunity to assume issues to the people . at times , however , it is best served by democracy by refusing to participate . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case in point , thereby further undermining my party and its coalition partners boycotting the vote . in fact , my popular support has grown , with opinion polls now signaling that it is the second most popular in the frontier province , gaining ground in every other province .
likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . yet , sadly , this shift will do nothing to resolve the problem engulfing the social fabric of any society . like bernanke and others might otherwise – and just like bickering policymakers are seeking to deflect policy responsibility on others – central banks lack the right tools to cope with the confluence of an unemployment crisis that results from inadequate investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . the best that central banks can do is purchase time , albeit at an increasing cost , for different policymaking entities to get their act together .
moreover , china recently cut the flow of the brahmaputra river tributary , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , to build a dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are situated on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950 ’s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is china ’s new chinese-built hub . in fact , china ’s dam builders target most of the international rivers that are flowing out of chinese soil . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calls for a new surge of dam projects on the plateau .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we now know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it was . back then , it was the global financial system that had become tottering . for the last 70 years , the era of multilateralism has served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after the end of world war ii . back then , it was the global financial system that totters .
for example , schools were multiplying as attendance surged . other public services were improved as well , and parents believed that their children would lead a much more prosperous life than they and earlier generations had . but this was not farfetched the transformation in a city where people assumed new identities , such as the nasserist , ba’athist , islamist , or communist – downplayed their regional and tribal origins . they were not pleased when , in the 1890s , their older sons became communists , vigorously opposing the brutal regime of hafez al-assad , president bashar al-assad ’s father . that was certainly true of my own parents , who sacrificing much to lift their nine children .
that results in soaring turnover , owing to overwork , together with an increased need for foreign-born health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers were right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for high-quality medical care . but the fair distribution of private health-care services across indigenous and migrant populations , too , often addresses thorny policy issues . and now , policymakers must also devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , ensuring that it is properly educated , trained , and learning to the challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc ’s national health system today do not target innovation or system thinking to improve its effectiveness and effectiveness .
the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in a military unified , traveled on television to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium . “ well , darling and old country here we are confronted anew , ” ” ” ” ” ” he said . if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead has been called on the army to reject even passive association with an insurrection and dictated it by restoring public order . if the state bowed before the challenge that it faced , france would be no more than a poor , fractured playfloating on the ocean of uncertainty , ” he warned .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study at asian university university in order to discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about their futures − which may well cause them to shed any indication about why young iranians are not sharing this optimism . what we do know with certainty is that there is a split within the regime . those divisions will allow new forces within iranian society to emerge . so all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . just when the world gained the consensus that ahmadinejad was merely a supreme leader ’s tool , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed a vice president against khamenei ’s stated desires ( though he subsequently overtracted the appointment ) .
during the last few years , nato ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s funding policy has been updated to allow common funding as an incentive to provide certain theater-level capabilities , such as medical installations , airports ’ handling of forces and supplies , or an intelligence service . common funding , with all members paying a share , according to their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve more equitable burden sharing . over what , period will make your calculation ? how can one evaluate the contribution of light infant-led infant-aid against providing critical enablers such as helicopter guneling tankers ? traditionally , nato implemented an “ cost ” policy lie where it falls ” : every member picked up all the costs to operating the alliance ’s operation .
because of easy funding and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply rose as “ zombie ” firms proliferated . aggregate demand , meanwhile , was restrained by debt headwinds , yet another result of easy monetary conditions . given these conditions , continued insistence on monetary easing appears particularly ill advice . moreover , one might argue that the easy money itself has contributed to the precipitous disinflationary forces that have seen in recent years . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underpinning their policy .
yet cooperation with america might not get the al-sauds much , for saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point . ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of last year , us regimes — as central to american strategic interests in the region — have been made to feel dispensable by the america that drops powerful hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . while the saudis were not included in president bush ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ axis of evil , ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is viewed through the direct result of a fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines that constitute an inherent component of the saudi regime . so , among a foul of possibilities , the least bad appears to be cooperation with america .
while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these specific clinical trauma theorists assert that a state known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of victims unable to remember their trauma , precisely because it has been so overwhelmingly frightening . these clinical trauma theorists , however , do not argue that being repressed ” or “ dissociating themselves from the memory of their horrific events ” are either slanders or benign . indeed , many clinical trauma theorists seem to believe that combat , rape , and other terrifying experiences are seemingly engrained on the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that minds can protect themselves by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it difficult for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until it keeps them safe for granted so many years later . indeed , how victims remember the trauma have been the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today .
as a child , mastering elé ’s cruel art was important . in calcutta , where some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game my comrades were playing , we would let a new kid in , only after whispering in each other ’s ears , elé belé . everybody knew that the goal scored by him was not a realistic goal . when a new kid arrived , alongside the doting mother , we might convey to one another with a simple glance that oldid was elé belé ’s . an elé belé is a player who thinks that he is taking part but , in fairness , only goes through motions .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , has argued that america ’s economy is bound to slow sharply , because it will not boost growth today to levels in the past . harvard larry summers has gained much attention for his argument that the world risks slipping toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” because the interest rate needed to bring the desired investment to line with the desired saving rate is below zero . yet , while the nairu no longer appears to have become the binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one concerns debt levels . as the growth pessimism of the last few years fades , some of the warnings that recently enacted in recent years seem to have become obsolete . the financial-times stock exchange composite index ( gbs ) up almost 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound began in 2009 .
but even a joint expert-level mechanism , established in 2007 merely for “ interaction and collaboration ” on hydrological data , has had little merit . local authorities in yunnan province , on its own , are considering a damming of the salween in the quake-prone upstream region . in fact , in china , it has been damming most of the international rivers that are flowing out of tibet , whose already-fragile large ecosystem is already threatened by global warming . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to refashion the natural flow of any river or limit its cross-border freshwater flow . the only rivers on which no hydro-engineering works have actually been undertaken so far are the indus , whose basin falls largely in india and pakistan , and the salween that flows to burma and thailand .
eventually , china ’s rapid growth will have to translate into a sharp rise in its currency , its level of home prices , or both . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with the sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . perhaps , but much of the equilibration in 2011 is likely to continue through an era of high inflation . perhaps , but most imf students view quantitative easing as textbook policies for pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of prolonged deflation , which would exacerbate the debt burden . as for china ’s currency , it remains support for an intensely political exchange-rate regime .
which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with the us distracted by other strategic challenges , not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , above all , an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are the best working-class candidates . both india and japan are longstanding us-led stakeholders , emphasized in their own transnational relations the values that america ’s espouses , such as the need to maintain a steady balance of power , respect for a territorial and maritime status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation . moreover , they have shown their shared desire to buttress the existing asian order . without such cooperation , china ’s aspirations would be constrained merely by domestic factors , like a faltering economy , rising social discontent , a worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics .
at the same time , developed countries should live to fulfill their commitments under the un convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to take a more effective approach to climate change . to be sure , the global financial crisis has exacerbated the call for action on climate change . but , as the effects of climate change pose a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to addressing it . with sustainable development and with measurable , reportable , verifiable support in terms of finance , technology , and apec , developing countries will take nationally appropriate mitigation actions . moreover , the un should establish appropriate mechanisms and institutional arrangements to adapt , thereby financing finance , and technology transfer .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned over his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of an out-of-control international financial order or no direction . in doing so , kim would have joined the private-equity firm , where he believes that he can “ make the most of an impact on major global issues like climate change . ” following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not play to the war .
this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides a way to fight deflation ( with which japan has been struggling for a decade ) . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has stated that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option . yet it has initiated a policy of rereplacing the boj ’s government bonds on the boj ’s balance sheet as soon as they recovered while steadily increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . that , no doubt , is what japan ’s bank of china is now doing . the <UNK> ter-money version would be buying up zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , owing , either to perpetual bond bonds , or because they flow over every time they mature .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he has embraced extremist rhetoric appeals to nativism , islamophobia , and outrage at gop elites . yet trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to have been displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . his supporters resemble the tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , urban , and female . in fact , his voters ’ ’ ’ ’ average annual income , approximately $ 72,000 , goes well beyond america ’s median of $ 56,000 . media outlets have provided just as much as $ 2 trillion to loose coverage , helping him to capture and hold the lead during the polls and most primaries .
they become soulless bodies , and the moral circle closes in to exclude them . our response to soulless bodies is well illustrated in the story telling descartes , after he died . descartes , it was well known , had his daughter , a francine , who died when she was just five years old . according to the story , descartes was so struck with the grief creating an automaton , a live mechanical doll , built up to seem identical to his dead daughter . once a group of people is viewed with stunning , attention shifts away from them as a moral individual .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy our country ’s peace and stability . if those bombings are intended to send a message , i will be sweep it off and crush it under my feet . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate any nervous reaction in the restricting of democratic rights . at the same time , we will not change our course ; we will not .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law reflects the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who are in no strong drive to challenge khamenei ’s authority in any direct way . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi may not obtain the presidency , but he will continue to represent the hope of most iranians , who differ dramatically with their governments . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme supreme leader ’s hold on power , would be rocked . mousavi needs to embark carefully on his legal campaign , uninhibited by the trust that she and iranians have won from their majority in iranians . he must stand by his two principal demands : the nullification of the election , and the establishment of an impartial committee to govern on a government ’s electoral violations .
but even if yanukovych thought primarily his own domestic interests , his quest for personal self-restraint was irrational . imagine that he had stopped asking himself to ask ways to make him happier . imagine that , with this question back in mind , he compared the alternative of a lavish lifestyles ( with a private zoo and a pirate-ship ) with that of living comfortably well on the substantial pay to which he was entitled while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve the lives of ukraine ’s citizens . there is also something even more fundamental to something than one ’s ’s reputation . a political leader has greater opportunities than anyone else to help the people , and that should have been yanukovych ’s top priority .
it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the outside rest of the world in a more constructive and sustained way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are merely placing a good face forward forward to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as both nuclear-armed weapons-monger and human-rights violator . the north koreans have been far less forthcoming about their intentions . two days before north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , an officially part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet forces for serious violation of the north-south joint declaration and pushing north-south ties to the worst disaster . ” on june 6 , north korea ’s state news agency went on the bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the americas : “ lurking behind ” the american people ’s ulterior designs to [ prod more ] zealously the south korean puppet forces into ascending the confrontation with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation to the extreme pitch and fan [ the ] second korean war . indeed , gprk ’s visit to incheon comes within the context of mixed messages .
everyone benefits from each of us become good at various things , exchanging our knowhow with others . it is not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to more diversification . when an idea is both counter-intuitive and truly false , it often is because it is true on one level , but not on the level , at which it is applied . yes , people practice specialization , and they should specialize , too .
gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and mosquitos , particularly females , may surf air currents at relatively high levels of altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds may blow them hundreds of miles . this choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders already decided to follow through with release.reinforcing this conclusion , after the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) and in a public-health context . that means ensuring that consent would have to be secured substantially beyond released point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for confined time ; obtain unlimited access toon point ; the big picture ; and ps archive , together with our annual magazine for just $ 75 . yet civil-society groups operating in and around test-site villages have also not been adequately consulted about target malaria ’s target work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it becomes that local people have not engaged in the genuinely participatory debate about the target malaria project ’s genuinely participatory malaria project , let alone extended their informed consent . by contrast , the few people whom i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to be halted until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had taken into complete informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent translates into its own rhetoric , which eschews a unequivocal word
new york – today ’s labor markets are interconnected , too . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . many more have simply become discouraged and drop out of the labor force entirely : not in school , not on work , and not on finding work . the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs .
orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian populist aims – and with eu funds to boot . but the weakening of the rule of law is not merely a domestic matter , in hungary or poland . since article 7 of the eu ’s treaty of lisbon provides the suspension of a rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent , serving rule-breakers ’ interests by all but guaranteeing that it will go unpunished . but , because this “ nuclear option ” ” ” will demand unanimity vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never use them .
bush might have read these messages , but that they were beyond his comprehension . in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda by saying that there was incontrovertible evidence of a link between the al qaeda and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . it is also possible that he did not believe what he read . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush was lying . detection technology made it clear that the iraqi people had no nuclear weapons , as the chief un inspector hans blix had emphasized .
unfortunately , as the sri lanka bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , the defeat of isis in syria and iraq has merely intensified the challenge of terrorism , as battle-hardened combatants with operating training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains the region ’s obscure local group to perform sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosive devices . all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and a rejection of modernity . returnees are present in many other asian countries , as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth during a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and around the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s novel film “ in the lands of blood and honey , ” refers to the specific ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . having already won two awards , and it is an emergent box-office achievement , attesting to the enduring interest – and perhaps mystique – that the balkans holds for international audiences who have been as frighteningly confused as they have been about what the events of the 1990 ’s . for those of us who have lived and worked in the region over that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows . as jolie ’s movie so ably demonstrates , neither the international community nor local leaders have made a concerted effort to prevent bloodshed . one notable exception – perhaps the one exception – was kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died in sleep over the new year ’s day in 94 .
moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . in addition to shifting investment from the uk , firms will also begin to relocate jobs . and that process will likely accelerate , even if british prime minister theresa may ’s government manages to get her proposed exit deal through parliament . there is mounting evidence of falling foreign investment and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . there are also signs that uk-based firms have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans , after an extended period of waiting and planned and greater wait .
he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but also supports national and european-level decision-making where this is appropriate ; the key is that processes are expected to be fairly flexible , allowing citizen participation . opinion polls currently are bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and the surge in hamon support among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby deporting its citizens . and he views globalization as good , but understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and bodies . but if macron qualifies the second-round run-off , he would pose an even greater threat to le pen than a outright left-wing candidate would .
it has launched the creation of “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and a european social model . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in the nature of the collective mourning and a outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on this enormous potential to create a logic of global solidarity . the european project is a realist response to globalization and its challenges . it has begun to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and a european social model . having achieved these ends , europeans now want to make a positive international contribution to world developments .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” krugman ’s cheerful response is that the new keynesians looked the latter way . they had “ overlooked , ” critical institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it gave rise to no “ deep conceptual issue ” ; that is , it did not demand that they rethink their theory . theirs was a failure not of theory but of “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ data ” ” collection . ”
the same can not be said for the kaczyński.us for one big difference is that eastern europeans tend to uphold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concern about physical security to embrace what the sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this divergence is that east european societies remain much more vulnerable to attack on abstract , liberal institutions like freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should n’t be all too surprising . notwithstanding trump ’s and brexit phenomena , the us and the united kingdom have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . in east europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it has tended to focus more on areas like community charity , religions , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s post-communist states , the left are either brittle or totally absent from the political mainstream . after all , when it comes to liberalism in eastern europe , it is western enough .
nowadays , most forecasters have put the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . unless germany can shift toward a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will most likely turn out to be right . but that is a lot “ so , ” if it is . as for the eurozone , the us seems to have been overly optimistic , even after it foresaw a drop in potential gdp growth to just 1.5 % . yet , while most of the press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains robust .
in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would avert an explosion in the financial cost entailed by turkey ’s accession process . the size of such transfers , meanwhile , would continue to depend on eu financial policies at a time of admission , the outcome of eu accession negotiations , and , in turkey , economic developments . in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial cost entailed by turkey ’s accession to the eu . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workforce workers would presumably be allowed to move more freely within the eu only after a long period of transition , possibly not before 2025 . given the imminent upswing of turkey ’s economy and its shrinking birthrate , experts predict a figure of about 2.7 million migrants by that point .
the later evangelist jan concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah that they must be “ the sons of the devil . ” just as whites attribute extraordinary sex powers to blacks , the instinct of the christian west is to treat jews as masters of the extraordinary force -- including the power of killing deities and for control of world finance . matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie that explains the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples come at night and stealing it while we sleep . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie explaining away from the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples come at night and stealing it while we sleep . ” yet the later evangelist , john haels concludes that because jews deny the christian messiah that they must be “ sons of the devil . ”
yet , with far too much of the macho , over-politics and provincialism , reform never materialized . thailand ’s decision last may to cut its interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against brazil , opening salvo in a crisis . so the notion that thailand was different , ” ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , proved to be utter nonsense . fueled by the illusion of a strong reserve-currency position , the thai central bank took on market speculators -- and lost . by the time crisis came , thailand looked like every other party vetting the desperation of the imf .
it was , not least , thanks to the efforts of protest movements that france has now made concessions on both of these counts . but how can those concessions be made , given duress ? only other eu governments are able to do so . that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can arouse the public ’s conscience but are not able to engage in formal commitment to governments . thus , the attempt to nail down the concessions that france extracted , the hour of governments arrived .
as the russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . but , as the regime has been forced to dedicate more resources to silencing the informed left , the majority will suffer economically . compounding the challenge , the cohort of informed elites in russia is growing . indeed , in short , the most important of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight .
london – officials at the peoples ’ bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their vow not to manipulate the currency for a strategic end is their ability to do so when it is so desired . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a full-scale currency war . if it does , the world should be calling its bluff . china ’s currency policy has arrived at the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed tariffs on an array of chinese goods .
but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the population grew from more than 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today . my professional focus has been on economics , which is why i have highlighted the role of growth in the us . keeping the developed countries up culturally also matters , perhaps more so . it would seem that besides contributing to the size and productivity of the us , immigrants also often complement native-born workers ’ skills , would help them earn more .
the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the college of faculty in birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the main front-intifada ’s organizers , which resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . the plo ’s old guard – male like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the people ’s liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords – had dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . subsequently , in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges that he led a second intifada , which began two years earlier , ordering some of its military strikes . after walking out on the scene , palestinian leaders born under occupation and spending time in israeli prisons will most likely fill the vacuum . that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of governance – and , more important , a transition to post-oslo politics .
it is likely that the regime will try to counter this eruption of right-wing nationalism , while upholding its strongly statist rhetoric . that wo n’t be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is fully aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be obliged to take its stand on more or less liberal , ideological grounds . these are the key ingredients in the nationalistic stew that seem to appeal to russia nowadays .
at the same time , tsai has vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free executive by 2025 . in taiwan , tsai is similarly committed to achieving the first three decades . today , coal and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % of the total . tsai has challenged the renewables share of the total rise to 20 % in the next eight years , with capacity coming mainly from solar and offshore wind . this new load would easily replace the electricity that a country produces with six nuclear reactors .
as the production of these fuels grows , the us will require policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are being used sustainably , untendered food markets , or compromising food security that ford has always been a first priority . rudolf diesel ’s first engine built in the late 1800s came onstream on fueled by peanut oil . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , established in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut crude oil . in recent decades , biofuels have regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate income , and alleviate the dependency of which ford has warned . as the production of those fuels grows , we will require policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are used sustainably , unaltered food markets , or compromising food security that ford always takes on top priority .
others have fanned the flames of anglo-american antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as a barbarian society survivors of horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , a future prime minister , has told audiences more afraid of german sausage than he is of the german naval . one reason that free trade has been defeated by protectionism in britain a century ago has been that its supporters have appealed to people of emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . indeed , many of the british are believed to be in a “ free-trading empire ” of all kinds . in towns , displays in shop show the costs of tariffs to ordinary consumers . one reason that free trade has been defeated by protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , rather than just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food .
the effort to establish the european equivalent of the us dollar and impose a fiscal union atop it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fall . when the dot-com bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost their competitiveness . an inordinately lax regulatory environment turned out to be lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and interbank debt . europeans should now use the tranquility between the storms fronts to rethink a european currency union from the ground up . it turns member countries further into debtors and creditors , stoking even greater animosities .
indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be paralyzing . the hits chinese exports are likely to take in the wake of the region ’s currency depreciations are , nevertheless , unlikely to be dealt with promptly . the rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within america ’s own bureaucracy when it comes to judging the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to us interests . for europe , the situation is worrying on two counts . following from above has both the operational and symbolic significance . operationally , it is restricted to irresolution and involves no ground forces . symbolically , this implies backing the start and significant efforts undertaken by the rest of the world .
on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions like pension funds , they can identify and taxed . indeed , that is most often the case in europe . even so , argentina went bankrupt , because wealthy argentines had spirited their assets off the country , making them beyond the reach of the us government while their poor argentines refuse to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . this analysis indicates that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” attitude , to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance , goes in the right direction . the private sector had large foreign assets , while the us government had about equal volume of foreign liabilities .
but exposure to foreign broadcasters also implies that many disillusioned algerians are seeking to escape to italy , france , or germany as their only hope for occupation and decent livelihoods . disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stemmed largely from their shared love of soccer . the stars of barcelona , genuine madrid , chile , and milan are household names . but exposure to foreign tv stations also means that many disillusioned algerians are seeking to escape to italy , france , or germany as their only hope for occupation and decent livelihoods . will the coming months bring about genuine change in algeria ?
lower interest rates worked , but not so much , because they encouraged investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a collapse of housing prices . so far , it remains unclear what led greenspan to endorse the fiscal cutbacks . was this massive economic misjudgment or currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is a combination of both ; for he and bush pursued the same “ starving ” policy strategy that calls for tax cuts to reduce revenue , thereby driving down the public sector . in short , like greenspan ’s departs , he leaves behind an american-burdened economy with high levels of household and government debt , a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . and the food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement has been an important factor driving migrants to europe . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . land-linked issues will continue to threaten global stability , particularly as the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to a $ carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay in far more than they get back on their feet , while the more than 60 % of americans worldwide would get back on track than they put in . in the short term , a carbon dividend would redistribute money from predominantly wealthy high-minded us polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income polluters , all while cutting co2 emissions . on its own , this would represent a smart step in the right direction , one not to invite the “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t let someone tell you that this is a silver bullet , either .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs support as much as a accommodating trade union . german chancellor angela merkel is not about to make speeches attacking the strong euro and the european central bank ’s price-stability mandate . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist ; there is little evidence of that she is . rather , she simply understands that for an economy in need of a competitive strength , bad-mouthing the euro and the ecb sends the wrong signal . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb and has allowed germany ’s trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live with a strong currency and a deflationary monetary policy .
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it worries the rule of law , full integration , and a peaceful reconciliation of the member states ’ interests . germany ’s location on its own makes nationalism a bad idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a powerful , prosperous eu – above all , on trump ’s own age . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to its security . just as a french security can not be taken for granted without germany , there can be no german-polish national security without poland .
indeed , very few of those who receive ect also do not receive benzodiazepines that make a major autobiographical memory difficulties , when given alone , and an antipsychotic drug , causing difficulties for lists of name or telephone numbers and other comparable problems . ultimately , there is no dispute that ect can cause a short-term memory loss . but its critics seem to have found it hard to demonstrate memory errors or its inability to remember lists be readily attributed to ect , because ect is rarely given on its own . nor can the enduring autobiographical remembrance disorder and their inability to remember lists be readily attributed to ect , because ect is rarely given on its own . the same is true of antidepressant drugs .
if a cac required , say , 75 % of all holders of every bond class , the vultures could have bought as much as 26 % of only a single bond class , blocking a full-scale restructuring . but no government found cacs adequate to resolve , on average , domestic restructuring . so why should we think that they will have suffice in a far more comprehensive world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? notably , cacs are on the scale of the question of “ aggregation . ” if they were , there would have been no need for a domestic bankruptcy law that spells out issues like red tape and equitable treatment .
moving beyond the current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . holding talks in an inherent atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial investments of political capital for some sustained period . the eu should strengthen its case for open dialogue and tough negotiation , precisely what has long been missing from western policy on the ukraine crisis and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . we have arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade seeking the unilateral perks and eschewing negotiated compromises . we arrived at that point precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantage , eschewing negotiated compromises .
america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when a new deal – comprising federal programs , public works projects , and financial reform and regulations – was implemented in response to the great depression . but it also represents a global gold standard among many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in its citizens and leaders ’ allegiance to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . the us government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and welfare . in contrast to china ’s ’s ’s ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in its citizens and leaders ’ allegiance to liberty , including through free markets and local autonomy .
isis has so far hit france and turkey the hardest . france has suffered more than 230 deaths and some 700 injured , while turkey has endured over 220 deaths and an estimated 900 injured . the exact number of european fighters receiving isis ’s training and has returned home remains unknown . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the paris attacks in november 2015 , has claimed that it is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerilla warfare , improvising explosive devices ( ieds ) , oversight , counter-security , and forgery .
in bangladesh , for example , brac schools employ female teachers ( which are key to increasing girls ’ ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run school in terms of learning outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has started to open its doors to innovative ngo models , like brac ’s community-based education program . women account for just a third of all afghan schoolteachers in and secondary schools , partly owing to extremely low levels of female literacy . but the dearth of skilled female teachers makes scaling up such efforts hard to impossible . to account for learning crises in much of the developing world , governments and development agencies should look for wider opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers .
in each four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the longstanding use of state expenditures to finance the regime ’s ’s ’s ’s allies and clients , rather than an entire population . together , these regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute client rents , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could finance an opposition movement . as a result , capital and skill requirements have been misallocated , business climate has worsened and competition , innovation , and growth has suffered . these economic shocks have exposed the immense costs of any country ’s sectarian-based political system . and protesters fueled by economic grievances have been being emboldened to improve broader security conditions , owing largely to the defeat of the islamic state and the crushing wars in syria .
this raises the old question of whether a currency union can function without a fiscal union or at least a stronger and more binding fiscal rule ( the maastricht treaty ’s budget commitments are too easily violated too easily ) . but the reduced flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test it . to that we must add coordinated fiscal and bailout policies , as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and insurance across the euro area . will the euro ’s second decade prove to be as successful as the first ? currently , it boldly emphasizes the disparities , even discordant , fiscal responses now being embraced by european governments .
today , the pluto remain on the list of the planet in science textbooks and who knows how long it will take to remove it . but imagine a world where textbooks are being tailored to a number of learning styles and translated into myriad languages . such a world was only a dream ten years ago . today , linguistic barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children with homework because the texts are only in the english language . but imagine a world where textbooks are translated into a multitude of learning styles and translated into myriad languages .
one powerful college of thought that emerged almost once the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical its student leaders were reckless . by provoking the regime , student students derailed any chance of a slow process of political reform that their more moderate elders had set in train . it should have been obvious to them that a violent crackdown was unavoidable . indeed , that school ’s proponents often add up , at least so far , china has not been as ready for democracy . if only they could have formed their position in china .
yet international donors sit on their feet both in meeting their existing commitments and in making new ones . it is now too late now for non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , though the security council ’s threats of the international criminal tribunal for atrocity crimes ( icc ) – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what military-response options remain strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ? delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere . and all aid in the world will not stop the killing .
for example , when trump calls to cut america ’s military involvement in the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . yet through a reneging on the nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war within the region all the more likely . by sowing tariffs against america ’s closest allies , he has practically been driving them to china ’s arms . and , suddenly , trump is calling for trump to reduce america ’s international isolation , while gaining almost nothing in return , he has strengthened china ’s standing in east asia . trump ’s renewed full-scale global trade war is equally self-defeating .
it is just as vital , although for the committees to develop similar lines in each and every country 's provincial areas , they are also developing . communications between user and governmental services is vitally important to achieving any real improvement . every country could create a council that presents the public entities ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( producers and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . regions then can turn to growth engines . merchandise communication need not pass through capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the associated cost increase .
the idea of a transitory exit from the euro is especially ill-advised . at the same time , as we saw a decade ago , when financial institutions labored in an environment of uncertainty can become brittle and collapse , imposing heavy costs on society . and they are in keeping with positions set by the german ministry of finance under its previous government . the fdp ’s thinking has widespread support within germany and among german economists ( and is shared by a number of other european economists ) . but policies that may work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets might prove dangerous if applied in highly imperfect markets .
will that return to robust growth , or will the us have an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? will it return to robust growth , or will the us have an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i have been casting my vote for the latter , mainly because the huge legacy of the debt is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus required . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , the us will have a vicious adverse spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , that pushes bond prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weakening the banks . on the other hand , consumption and investment will be cut further .
prague - globalized free trade provides the greatest opportunity to boost human welfare in the coming decades and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of the poverty line over the last quarter-century . still , in rich countries today , the mood has turned against free trade . yes , there are costs to free trade , which must be addressed better ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by benefits . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in some of the poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years .
nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains the exception to islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which explains why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whatever their ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ america versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflicts in nigeria . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions . when muslims make up a minority , they tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions ; but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains the exception of islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which explains why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession ” for a growth ” merely “ serves as an excuse not to do nothing in terms of healthcare , about education , or about redistribution . ” piketty sees that as grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” and he is an obsession rooted very much in the current situation . “ we forget that for centuries that growth was essentially zero , ” he writes . “ one percentage point real growth implies a doubling of your economy ’s size every 30 or 35 years . ”
at the same time , europeans are justifiably worried about economic issues . just as the european commission has warned earlier this year ( under its predecessor ) , “ china is an economic competitor in its pursuit of technological leadership , ” a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . this language represents a sharp departure from which previous eu official eu communiqués . around the world , the next year will be critical . for good reason , many europeans find it sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang and elsewhere .
left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive amounts of fed-financed debt . while the us democrats have frequently criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . a final issue that must be considered when assessing america ’s current presidential candidates is whom each would have nominated as the next american federal reserve chair . center-leftists , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell , who has done quite well or elect a moderate democratic economist like former fed vice chair alan blinder or former treasury secretary larry summers . trump , who has repeatedly criticized incumbent fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little policy easing , would most likely elect a dovish candidate .
for example , the boston globe was running an article by the man – identified only by its first name – that the brothers carjacked up three days after their assault . the globe ’s sole source report proved nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizens , but it suggested a lot , leading to the spate of equally unverifiable reporting that new york had been targeted . in charlie savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo bay uprising , the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo us officials showed reporters on a video still up . the globe ’s one-source report report proved nothing – and was unverifiable to other reporters or businesspeople , but it suggested a lot , leading to the spate of equally unverifiable messages that new york has targeted . in charlie savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo bay uprising , the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials showed reporters on a video still on the
at the same time , those gains have not been evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far fewer progress than any other region . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end poverty in all its forms everywhere , and it reinforces the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , which is where poverty-reduction efforts have even greater and will have a bigger impact . moreover , rural areas ’ progress has so far reveals their own future potential . a second study , financed by ifad and recently released by the international food-policy research institute , examines the worldwide economic contraction beginning in 2012 across rural populations . it finds that as the contraction has lifted 38 million more people out of extreme poverty in 2030 than would have otherwise been the case , with middle-income farm households especially at risk .
the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to the interwar period . the attempt to rerepresent the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics pressed the british government to choose a domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson thoroughly in mind as it redesigned the world monetary system in 1944 . but , once enlarged by the political franchise , the working-age class had organized itself , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic objectives began competing with ( and overwhelm ) external regulations and constraints . these policies could then be entirely subjugated to the requirements of the gold standard and free capital mobility .
and that shift would take place at a time of growing challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa are working in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or weak soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more explicitly , owing to the dense web of laws , “ policies , ” and government programs – that places them at considerable disadvantage .
beyond the need to ease the human misery that is filling the television screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative of missed the significant medium-term opportunity that migration provides . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including daimler-benz ceo daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorbing and integration can help mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and reining in workers , particularly the long-term unemployed . though there are pockets of high youth unemployment in europe today , the ratio of workers to the elderly will decline considerably over the longer term . after all , a substantial share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes .
this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , and eventually acquire a safety net , like that of a full-time contracted employee . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of benefits for workers and responsibility for its employers . with digital commerce projected to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , gig workforce opportunities will grow . and , when access to a wide range of valued benefits , from medical insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , it will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , and traveling a dog for another on a rover , each platform would contribute equal amounts to its or its benefits .
at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , through the construction of more effective and trustworthy household protection systems . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable insurance for farmers , or establish some kind of mutual-assistance scheme . likewise , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector is capable of exploiting new technology . for starters , they must take steps to protect the rural environment , ensure animal welfare and improve access to schooling , knowledge transmission , and entrepreneurial training to farmers and agricultural laborers . implementing ( and financing ) such initiative will require sustained political will .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a great , risky experiment . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . core interest rates have remained near zero for at least six years now . crisis management has yielded major market-related distortions , with certain segments of congress holding essentially no longer explainable by crucial economic data . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , not more .
we ’ve seen hints from the new paradigm in apple , an iphone that enables gestural finger motions ; but , in the intelligence community , a concept of visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what it was . it ’s easy to forget that years ago , telephones had no buttons or dosage – one had to pick up a handset and ask the “ operator ” to get its connections . the telephone dial did not emerge until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated “ “ “ user intern ” had thought ” of what the most counterintuitive form ought to be . designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even a scientific fiction . when improving the use of computational interface , forms is the key .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s name means “ foresight , ” because he always looked ahead , unlike his spanish brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed her in her life . only later did she come to realize her gruesome error . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus effort to issue a warning against his brother , artheus , was not to accept zeus as an ominous gift . nevertheless , that is not yet the whole story .
indeed , the downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is simple : one can argue that the immediate cause of a breakdown , when examined closely , is not everything that is too severe . the crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new and much easier way to accept a supermajority vote in the council of ministers . under the method adopted at the eu ’s nice summit three years ago , every member country has a certain number of votes , weighted according to population , yet small countries are protected by having proportionally more votes than the big ones . the chances are that they will do so again . in fact , this system is well known as qualified-majority voting in france . under the method adopted at the eu ’s nice summit three years ago , every member country has a certain number of votes , weighted according to a population ; but small countries protect itself proportionally more votes than the big countries .
rome – the prices of many staple foods soared dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many in poor and developing countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including soaring oil prices , strong demand for african crops , falling global distribution of food commodities , and lower cereal production . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies boosted the trend further , as did protectionist measures , such as export restrictions . while these factors undoubtedly put upward pressure on food prices , they on their own may not explain steep hikes . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , hit their highest levels in the last 30 years , generating significant policy and economic instability – and leading to food riots – in many countries .
this highlights another question on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . in a videos produced after the fighting for mosul dam in august , the group called for the sykes-picot end , ” ” ” ” and announced the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map . erdoğan ’s ambition to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving him to collude with that challenge to a western-devised us-led regional order . this highlights a further question on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . indeed , turkey has long been offering logistical support to the islamic state , even as it enabled the kurdish group ’s murderous members to massacre hundreds of thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep .
but perhaps no current us leader is more susceptible to misreading science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe ’s authoritarian , donald trump . it should never be forgotten that trump has wormed a way out of us policy by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument , which claimed that then-president barack obama had not been born in the us , and thus did not qualify for the office he held . but his core supporters hear the dog whistle past behind his condemnations of us finance powers , those powers that now seem intent on forcing higher interest rates . since entering the white house , the us lunacy has only grown stronger . so far , he has taken pains to make outright his assertion that these markets act at the behest of world jewry ” ( world jewry , many turkish islamists believe , of the 1908 young turkish revolution and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) .
in the energy sector , we are privatized by the state-owned energy giant distributors . we are also doing everything possible to make ukraine an attractive destination for foreign investors . in order to ensure full transparency about its tender process and eliminate the problems that have been experienced in the past , western advisers are backing the us . at the same time , we are doing everything possible to make ukraine an attractive destination for foreign investors . indeed , ten leading international energy corporations will take part in privatization of the former pool of companies .
to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( though they later adjusted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged just as the 2008 global financial meltdown made a new rationale for returning to government interventions ) . japan ’s near-bankrupt air lines rescued a government bailout , a device that appears increasingly common . even that , chinese political choices are deeply influenced by other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-controlled ” economic model now mimicking them elsewhere in the region . in japan , the post services that had been privatized are to be re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is being strengthened .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . by contrast , many emerging economies that were highly dependent on commodity export earnings were following the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in the advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially add to their plight , in some cases , disastrously . without the ecb ’s ’s commitment , in order to keep sovereign-debt yields from soaring , a persistent risk-off in the eurozone – and , indeed , to the whole edifice in the european union – of sovereign-debt defaults . but , at least , europe has benefited from falling commodity prices .
and let the world take note that conditions are even worse today than they were at any time since occupation began . let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis was a human manmade disaster . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten rely on food aid . almost half the labor force is unemployed ; local industry has collapsed . water and sewage systems fail ; garbage accumulates in the streets .
new york – what the european union needs now is accepted responsibility for the absence of a common asylum policy that has transformed this year ’s mounting influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . the eu needs a comprehensive response to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over the flows of asylum-seekers in a way that takes place in a safe , orderly manner , and at a pace that reflects europe ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb them . this precipitated panic among asylum seekers , general public and authorities in accountability and order . in fact , asylum-seekers were the primary victims , sustained in official life . every member state selfishly focuses on its own interests , often acting against the interests of others .
despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and expanding his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he is prepared to take risks on a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . of course , whether they are right about which they remain to be seen . that is where the technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes . the economists would concede that xi ’s campaign-finance campaigns , too , have removed many of his would-be rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened stance now enables him to replace a credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable .
in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted myriad meetings to resolving them ( at this time , primarily german reparations ) . the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create intra-european conflicts . at the time , it was derided , and viewed as an entrenched opponent of the european project . unfortunately , his insight was sound : european countries today are at loggerheads not , despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that international disputes over debt and remittances pose serious dangers .
the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between the country ’s rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and its coastal and inland culture are so large that it is far harder than it was before people from a varied work-walks of life to feel shared common plights and goals . sometimes , like the recent use of violence to quell south chinese peasants protesting official land grabs , the ccp still shows its willingness to use “ a boot-on-the-face suppression . ” still , there have been more moments of late that favor huxley ’s vision of a political order over that of orwell . whereas a key distinction in the nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are split into different social orders defined through disparate tastes and lifestyles . of course , no single novel via a perfect lens through which to view any society .
they are susceptible to persuasion , to experience , and to changing circumstances . this indicates that progressive politicians who assume an active governmental role in reshaping the economic opportunity face an uphill battle in victory over voters . the fears of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . there are similarities in many european countries , particularly in southern europe . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what the government can and should do are not immutable .
copenhagen – in one of his first foreign-policy pronouncements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused attention on climate change and made clear both his own priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . according to obama , the few challenges confronting america and the world are more urgent than the fight against climate change . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , though this neglects to tackle the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , though it neglects how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . according to obama , the few challenges confronting america and the world are more urgent than the fight against climate change .
its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective purpose as much as a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in parts of ireland , where the agitation from independence still reverberates a century later , through insecurity generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ” before the creation of an offshore empire – first in north america and the caribbean , followed by india and southeast asia – the english created a land-based empire , expanding from the south of the british isles to its northwest . still , for centuries , the british empires generated wealth , supplies of raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all the inhabitants of the british isles . thus , whereas the “ outer empire ” allowed for the convergence of the uk to spread the differing national identities around a shared british national identity , the “ inner empire ” was decidedly english .
free speech and other basic human rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable for the safeguarding of free societies , with no success . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over minority interests , corrupt regimes are stealing from themselves . that is why , in recent decades , corruption sparked mass protests from bucharest to brasilia .
in other words , trumpism might be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , rather than a portent of its disintegration . viewed this way , trump ’s isolationism is a populist way to argue that america needs to withdraw from commitments that it has neither a rising power nor a willingness to honor . trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this backdrop of disenchantment , not through an ideal moral or economic norm . that promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is sensible , even when it implies defeat by bashar al-assad ’s regime . disengaging peacefully from global responsibility will be trump ’s greatest challenge .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won the general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s alleged intention to “ “ “ “ “ “ divide jerusalem ” ” was . ” almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that may , so far , , , , , unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a inconclusive round framework agreement with an inconclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hard-line position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . in a seminal effort to improve the design ’s chances of success , us president barack obama , who has largely avoided assuming a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu in the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but to change netanyahu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mind will will will be no easy feat , not least owing to the domestic political pressure he faces .
new haven – last summer ’s doomsday day marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central bank , the united states federal reserve and the bank of japan . beyond that , the fed did nothing that , precisely the problem posed by the problem at hand . and the boj ’s alchemists at the boj unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . furthermore , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . and the boj ’s alchemists unveiled another feeble unconventional policy gambit .
if prague 's summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already initiated the new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia plays a large part in the solution . if prague 's summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already initiated the new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has already accomplished over the last six months to transform the political message of rome into practical cooperation . it has been henry kissinger , who argued , following the terrorist attacks of new york and washington of 2001 , that a tragedy can turn into an opportunity .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind behind the regime ’s terrorist activities outside iran , and a puppet master its proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet , even for the last few years , it has been pressuring a shrewd public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or to the caesar-like warrior-poet . and , like one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders untainted with accusations of corruption , he was mooted as the likely presidential candidate in the forthcoming election . while regime hardliners there regarded him as a hero , many iranians who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations or who objects to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora have seen him very differently . still , throughout the last few years , suleimani ’s regime pressed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or a caesar-like warrior-poet .
a vocal critic of protectionism will push the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . he plans to slash the us corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to eliminate financial investment from wealth taxation . he also wants to boost the us economy with € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) a stimulus package and expand the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth and rely on supply-side reforms to deliver it . his support for el khomri law , which made it easier for german workers to fire ; and his opposition to his 35-hour week 35-hour week , indicate his desire to increase the french labor market ’s “ flexibilities . ”
prague : many americans , it seems , find themselves overwhelmed by the feeling that since the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can be crossed off the list of potential risks . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . america , they argue , should pay attention to its own problems and should not recruit in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its initial lack of interest than it will price it ; instead , it will pay it to become engaged at the start of a crisis , or , better yet , even before . never in modern times has isolationism defended america from peril ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze .
exploiting the asset-backed safety model , the us recently joined with the un green climate fund , along with china , to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . that , in turn , will allow pension funds and insurance companies to fund indirectly the required facilities upgrades on mom-and-pop shops and workshops from tijuana to tijuana del fuego . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the prevalence of bus quickest bus ( brt ) systems is a proven path to reducing congestion , emissions , and commuting costs . there are many other areas where those committed to fighting climate change may be able to follow our example . here , too , creative solutions can be found .
once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , as well as unity within europe , could make all the difference . such an alliance would also enable a new foreign policy for europe , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that are not so heavily dependent on america . the political conditions of a grand coalition government would appear certain to be clear . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , might , claim , should and i believe would regain control over its borders , permitting it to tighten and enforce necessary limits on migration . the spd should hold out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while cdu/csu holds the chancellorship .
that is why it is high time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . fortunately , that , in turn , is precisely what abe intends to do . as the deflation gap narrows , so will the overall implications of us monetary policy , because it increasingly affects prices more than output . in any case , the success of us monetary policy is hard to deny . when there is enough excess supply in the us economy , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts at boosting demand .
the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , which recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinction among them as a consequence of origin , race , or religion . now that debate is heating up again in france , because the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has generated a fierce dispute that touches on the very heart of french republicanism . under a law that dates back to the french revolution , and reconfirmed in 1978 , french civil servants are prohibited from collecting information about a citizen of ethnic or racial origins , whether real or alleged , when conducting an census or other efforts to gather statistical information for the population . there are two main reasons for this . race was always a provocative topic when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics .
prevention should start with an education aimed at boosting citizens ' expectations . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity may end up . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategy for achieving this goal . nobody prefers living in a community where it must be paid for free to secure basic public services like health care and education .
in these countries , ministers are being forced to resign for petty infractions , which would seem trivial in other countries . a persuasive american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed control it might seem like a futile task . but the goal is certainly worth embracing , for the fact that the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of well-being . in fact , recent studies have shown that as “ generalized trust ” in a society comes high , economic performance has been improving and living satisfaction has increased . among other reasons , commercial agreements are more easily attained and efficiently .
the three musketeers remain positive in some elements of the post-crisis agenda . bank capital has been greatly strengthened and the system of transparency international ’s derivatives markets has materially strengthened . as they put it , “ using fiscal adrenaline ” could be curtailed only when it is needed most . the fed has embarked on a process of normalizing monetary policy but has not completed the job , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent it by heckling from the sidelines . the emergency arsenal is urgently needed , ” ” ” ” ” particularly at a time when there are relatively little scope for “ relax monetary policy .
human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refused to allow liu to reap the rewards of awarding the nobel prize ; even now , norway has even endangered the financing repercussions . in fact , the same month , one of china ’s largest state-owned oil firms has concluded a drilling treaty with norway ’s statoil company , a clear signaling that diplomatic tensions will not stop entrepreneurship . so , western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff , focusing on signal-to-noise ratios , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are made softly at the top of pragmatic leaders who are indeed susceptible to pressure .
that said , the us system ’s focus must shift from a more speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial-sector regulation and antitrust and corporate-governance laws , together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets will not become rigged casinos . the us might hoped-for america to show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , the global reserve system , and better ways to restructure its sovereign debt ; when it comes to tackling global warming ; at democratizing us international economic institutions ; and cutting off aid to the poorer countries . americans should hope for all this , though i am not sanguine that they will deliver much of this and more likely , america will muddle through ; here another small program to fight aids and its homeowners ; the bush administration ’s end of tax cuts for millionaires but no wholesale defense reform , severe cutbacks in us defense spending , or significant progress on global warming . with europe ’s crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise has not gotten very well for global growth . as globalization , every country has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring more global collaboration .
little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states are seeking to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its desire to destroy another united nations member . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . to be sure , that issue is completely outside israel ’s borders . but the stakes are far higher than they were in the seventh-century bc , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with its determination to acquire nuclear weapons .
the strategic significance of the dramatic heights overlooking of most of galilee ’s northern region , it is clear . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem may prove to be more benign than in the past , when the golan was a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . thus , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . the two sides ’ agendas differ , but , in some ways , : while syria focuses on the symbolic significance of the golan ’s return , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern border , as well as on the cessation of syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon , a country practically a syrian protectorate . for israel the quid pro quo for return the golan is not a piece of paper with conventional platitudes about peace and coexistence .
whereas army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are excessively disgruntled clearly by the recent police and army reform to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations force from the provinces , staffed with chechen war veterans , may cherish the excitement of sticking it back to moscow ’s fat cats . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support the initial crackdown , violent repression would make it harder to sustain . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more thankful for a pay hike that putin ’s united russia party announced with much fanfare , soon before the recent duma elections . in the fall of 1989 , eastern germans joined their peers in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , during those same year in china , the protestors in beijing have been snapped up by troops from inner mongolia , who failed to understand mandarin and had little sympathy for big-city dwellers .
this is why europe ’s leaders have taken the ambitious steps they have made . the 1992 crisis demonstrated once again that the current system is inherently unstable . not traveling ahead to europe would set europe up for an even more disruptive crisis . not traveling forward to the euro would set europe against an even more disruptive crisis . not traveling now with bank recapitalization and government bond purchases would similarly lead to disaster . but not entering the transition now would have been a disaster as well .
but his own diplomatic cognitive dissonance – criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to supply it with military hardware – may serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s move to musharraf ’s regime has deeply eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffation extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he pointed out that he was from hawaii , and took pride in being “ america ’s first pacific president . ” two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published the “ america of the pacific century , ” referring to a shift in america ’s global strategy . america , of course , claims that it , too , knows all about democracy .
mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , suffers not through the avoidance of a war , but by gains further through the control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military effort . alas , germany ’s government , by its conduct at german chancellor schroeder ’s campaign for reelection last september , has maneuvered itself out of having any state in question . to hand more credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that if war were to become the only option that it would stand by america . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only one , and certainly not the automatic “ serious consequence ” to follow from the iraqi failure . to give extra credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that if war were to become the only possibility they would stand
instead of investing in terraced fields , gathering trees , and purchasing high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s ’s farmers are seeking to maximize their short-term profits . moreover , rather than investing in terraced fields , planting trees and buying high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term profit . africa ’s small-scale family farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , weather patterns , and resource competition fueled by wildpopulations , face an even sharper bureaucratic hurdles : no more informed paper showing that the land they call home is theirs . that is especially true of female farmers facing an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . studies show that there is no way to reduce extreme poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly for women .
it is not that the end of the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is merely a fact that people have begun to consider the potentially low-probability futures in which ending emu might well place on the agenda . my view is that , within a decade , germany would be better off under more neo-liberal policies . that alone is enough to shake up asset prices worldwide . but this does not seem to be what the german electorate wants , and this generates the complexion of german politics four years out of today ’s incalculable country . coupled with all this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically the ecb and the euro .
the results in march 2010 general elections gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than second-place finisher , maliki ’s state-backed coalition government . of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as a sunni party . rather , it is described in power as a ndp , which invites people of all the orientations to participate . that vision has huge appeal among those who wish to see a less sectarian-based form of policy in iraq . but , within iraq , very few people are sunni or shia , who do not view iraqiyya as a party devoted to restoring sunni leadership .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” ” with too many branches , excessive deposits , and funding costs far exceed those of their more successful peers . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing corporate assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and unable to generate a sustainable profit . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of european banks to be close or pooled . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , europe ’s entire political experiment . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger such as commerzbank , another german institution .
none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . today , the febrile political environment certainly will not simplify matters . they should take special care to prevent a real-estate bubble , because real estate represents an enormous amount of overall wealth and a crucial source of collateral in finance . but the powerful rise in low-grade leveraged credit should also be a concern . monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; preventing asset booms is notoriously difficult ; and the kinds of structural reforms needed to ensure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly ever popular .
in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain has revolted against the spendthrift stuart stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a fresh approach to debt . so it may well be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how the debt can trimmed . indeed , among other things , hardly a “ reneging ” on public debt is deeply rooted in the evolution of legal security , representative government , and a modern democracy . many economists have argued that the case for arithmetic is based on a foundation of arithmetic . but the european central bank , notably by ecb council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction – a case that is both politically significant and deeply complicated .
unfortunately , the battle for the fed ’s independence is far from over . in fact , some highly conservative republicans have objected to yet another of trump ’s own appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to us monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next great recession or a financial crisis . and , though someday the fed will almost surely embrace that counsel ( i have also been published on the issue ) , goldman sachs ’s nomination has barely survived america ’s senate banking committee . but , tellingly , the senate has given trump what he wants , with many republican senators adopting a disrupter , such as a disciple of ron “ end up the fed ” paul , or another conservative contemplating a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . trump may simply keep his own powder draining away until a real conflict erupts .
yet india continues to confront many challenges : almost 300 million people living in extreme poverty , spreading the naxalite rebellion , the dangers of a terrorist attack ala mumbai , and sprawling , urban slums . these problems will not be solved overnight . but the growing conviction that tomorrow will make india a better place will hold india ’s polity . moreover , how will singh balance the pro-market trade-off between the pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the burgeoning middle class ’s expectations of improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ?
a lawsuit for losses stemming from the hoaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles . empirically , few firms are getting this right : america ’s national public radio and bbc both recently hacked the sea , whereas mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . because few mechanisms may prevent hoaxed tweets , and , given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers force attacks to ever more trouble . finally , the ap is unlikely to countenance financial penalties for this mistake . indeed , the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to throw them the first stone down a company that breaks down .
attribution means the ability to assign the likely causes of an event to human action , or any other factor . detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of routine weather variation or a symptom of deeper , long-term transformation . several studies in the last year have shown that researchers can indeed detect long-term changes in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms – and strong storms . by taking advantage of cutting-edge climate models , scientists are not only detecting long-term climate change ; they are also attributing at least some of the recent extreme events to human causes . the new science of detection and attribution stresses our knowledge , and also gives us an even greater cause for concern .
the us can reduce its deficits more rapidly than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . the mutual assessment process to which the g-20 nations agreed is a crucial component in the rebalancing program , for it is where the bits of a cooperative strategy for growth will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if this works , what emerge will emerge from g-20 countries ’ commitments to undertake policies that are both globally beneficial – on the condition that others stick to their commitments . what is not the only cooperative imperative is adjustment ? the international exchange-rate system is , at least partly , broken down .
given the power of big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing such trends will require government intervention . notably , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my opinion , the two greatest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump – have challenged big tech firms . but solutions that have been proposed , including by legal scholars like lyndon khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were originally conceived . and , indeed , taming big-tech has made the issue a major issue ahead of the united states ’ 2020 presidential election in the united states .
throughout each of my field visit , i marveled at how these efforts affect the lives of women . on one recent trip , i met rahrasmata , a young mother telling me that thanks to her savings group ’s safety net , she was managing to support her family , despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death and lingering droughts . best of all , she was describing herself as an overpowering , respectful , and ambitious woman . she was diversifying her income , managing her finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial situation or education , deserve to ascribe to themselves .
if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate that possibility . as anyone who receives the investment statements they know well knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” stocks in the fossil-fuel industry , based on the assumption that corporations will , by some accounts , drain and fire whatever known reserves they are , will plummet . that reality implies another , compelling case for divestment . investing in these companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky .
it was only in the late 1970s and 1980s that there became apparent that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . america had broadly championed that order , followed the iraq war ’s 2003 declaration , being a clear exception , and , like most countries around the world , benefited enormously from globalization and the establishment of new elaborate value chains . the ensuing quarter-century was an era of neoliberal multilateralism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet implosion , that g2 world gave way to a g1 +n order in which all other countries ( together ) could not rival america as the sole global superpower . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ”
russia ’s economy has been under severe strain due to western sanctions over crimea . instead , after four years of falling real incomes , its government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms , which have included increasing the retirement age . with few options for rallying public opinion in the recovery , putin may well have decided that now is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack . tackling russians ’ cycle of economic grievances will not be easy . even more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and waning incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship .
this stands in stark contrast to other aspects of the european union ’s agenda . first , eu member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 they established new institutions for doing so ; and at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened these institutions . yet , in practice , there has been virtually no detectable progress . the goal of both the economic and monetary union and the single currency , adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary agenda ; when it comes , some critics have been saying reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be a reality in just two months ’ time .
scrapping us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , particularly at this early stage , alter the fundamental perception of that intervention , both in and outside the arab world . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are actually perceived as certain form of western neo-imperialism . that is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , as well as temporary alliances , or even more enduring alliances such as nato . this past point has stood at the heart of the problems in iraq . it is only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council that can provide legitimacy and international backing that military action – except for clear self-defense – requires .
meanwhile , civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian disaster . syria ’s balkanization among a country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clear predictable result . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospects of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical-weapons stockpile poses an immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight it until its eventual end . this regional re-alignment need not be necessarily anti-western , but it certainly will happen if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily .
for decades , governments have played a leading role in domestic media , using regulation of broadcasts frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . and yet , in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budget influence . in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is on the rise . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media income . unfortunately , while this windfall may be putting more programming , it merely deepens the sector ’s woes .
the next major step was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian intervention following the rwandan genocide in rwanda , and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . as a result , international law had come to recognize the “ right of protection against governmental arbitrariness and the states to commit to crimes against their own people , even as law enforcement remains relatively uncertain . ” this development was anything but accidental . finally , a similar development in politics and international law led to the creation of an international court of justice ( ecj ) . with its establishment , resulting from its long and gruesome experience , the core idea of modernity – that the powers of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of greater law , thereby injecting individual rights above national sovereignty – took great strides .
axelrod hosted tournaments among high-profile game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a recurring game of the prisoner ’s dilemma . under the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with cooperation : if another player behaves cooperatively , so should you . the winner , the strategies most likely to produce a cooperative outcome , was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . only when another actor ’s flaws – that is , start to display non-cooperative behavior – should you be doing the same . to be sure , when another player works , a decision could be enticed to defect to boost your own payoff and potentially even secure windfall .
sadly , however , the economic trajectories that congress has been plotting , albeit it may well boost growth in the short term , are ultimately on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . like for the right , anyone hoping for peace in the region , reducing tensions within india among religious communities is a relief to the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror , and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly misfired . and india ’s malnourished children are most living in india . despite rhetoric about an approach to “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion .
admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would require mainstream economists to navigate against the neoliberal currents of our age . what is fairly obvious , however , is that even in the 2010s , there was not enough empirical evidence in support of friedman ’s ideas to justify their increasing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s cure proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession , strongly implying that it would have fallen similarly short in the aftermath of the great depression . friedman ’s dominance of thought at the onset of the great recession had less to do with evidence supporting them than with ensuring that the scholastic science of economics is all too frequently tainted by policy . in this case , the contamination was such a bad thing that successive policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and to apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a massive scale to address the problems presented by the great recession .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . rising intra-eu tensions have been the inevitable result . on one hand , the “ safe ” euro has been protected , particularly by germany , its export economy , from speculative attacks , and the chaos of currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been plainly conflicted .
sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process , and derailing a referendum on self-determination pledged for the south in january 2011 on charges of a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous implications for sudan ’s peoples and for the region as a real possibility . after all , the regime ’s repressive nature in khartoum appears to be at the root of the many conflicts that have devastated the country . indeed , since the civil war ’s end in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently had to confront the militia that operates as government proxies . furthermore , sudanese security forces continue to arm the arab tribes straddle its north-south border with the aim of destabilizing the mostly christian south .
one approach is to capture co2 at the power plant as the burning of coal or gas . another is to capture it directly from the air , using the specially crafted chemical practice . one approach is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a massive scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but it leaves only a few remaining areas in the world , where it can be widespread without major environmental or social costs . )
it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern about pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from shareholder perspectives . figures recently released by new york attorney general andrei cuomo indicate that nine large financial firms have paid their employees aggregate compensation that exceed $ 600 billion from 2003 to 2008 , a period when their aggregate market capitalization substantially decreased . such patterns can raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well intended to serve their own interests . in a post-crisis monetary order , governments must assume the role of tracking and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives contributing to the current crisis could easily be blocked .
such a manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to keeping fake news in mind . it is time to call a spade a spade : the republican party is strongly responsible . consider the question of “ bump ’s stocks , ” ” gun-modification that the culprit in a las vegas massacre uses to fire faster . some republican senators have now been attracted by their praise for indicating that they will support a ban on the establishment . but when democratic senator dianne feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republican deeply opposed her .
chile today is very different from chile ’s 20 years ago . by 2000 , that share had fallen to 22 % , and by 2010 , to just 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . the 29 % who have left the poverty line are now the incipient middle class , with its new ambitions and its goals . as a result , demands for more opportunity and improved living conditions have risen louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to improved health services , a more secure environment , and access to higher education – the most important determinant of social advancement .
clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . ( the first effort , in iowa , where she discussed more than eight people in closed-door meetings , did n’t work out too well . ) true , clinton offers multiple programs that she would be able to push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no longer a single theme to her pudding trump . this impressive , spectacularly smart woman just does not have the feeling behind her politics that she is being demanded at the top . success in america ’s presidential politics requires superb intuition , tossing out one ’s legs and , above all , a compelling rationale for running .
never mind the apparent flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and implement risks far more akin to emerging-market advanced economies , such as germany and the united states . indeed , it was only a year ago that at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , senior staff members were telling anyone to listen that europe ’s entire sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a serious worry , owing to predicted growth and reform . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , a fund attempted to convince investors that eurozone debts were solid as the light . as the situation deteriorates , one might have assessed that the imf would mark its faith in a market , as it did , by adopting a more cautious tone .
another alternative , supported by a large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is a direct measure of wellbeing or happiness . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now accessible for many countries , and the idea of cutting to jpmorgan chase by this measure as the prosperity metric has strong proponents . but that option has several drawbacks , including the fact that wellbeing indicators are changing little over time . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to keep track of the ways that people are using their time and imposing wellbeing measures on themselves . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show up at least six or seven on a 0-10 scale .
the “ big bang ” of 1986 – which de-regulated financial services had made risky behavior in the city of the norm . these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the shift to finance that thatcher had promoted heightened inequalities and made the economy much more volatile . if that latter metric is the metric , sweden , despite her success , thatcherism was a failure . her “ right now to buy ” policy has triggered an upward spiral in house prices , encouraging households to take on more and more debt .
yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge because of its talented and dedicated staff in the same way that it does its unparalleled links to countries . and , yes , it has courageously adopted the lead when it comes to shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change . but its forward analyses have all too often proved backward-looking , and its quantitative projections have consistently subject them to significant revisions . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to the advanced economies – have little effect ( putting it first politely ) .
this is particularly necessary because women ’s circumstances are one of the main benchmarks that the outside world , and especially the west , are taking a great advantage of trying to evaluate the arab world . indeed , the predominant view among arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ capacity to break free of their conviction that islam confines all arab women on equal terms when in reality they experience very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , far fewer assessment , from assessment , the deep changes taking place in arab societies – and from being driven by how women drive those changes on the ground . consequently , the west has risks ascertaining itself , with an important pivot to understand the arab world today and as it gets tomorrow . and , sadly , such assessments have tended to focus the supposedly solid sm that derives from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge of any real change that is taking place .
in the far left crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look at inherited rituals , morals , and instruction values ; groups in which people behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that respond predominantly to external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising rates of literacy and rapid advances in communications technology have generated a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its entire three types of competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased mass literacy and high-tech technologies that are fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . grasping their skills in massachusetts and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature is both a battle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies .
new delhi – as the world ’s second-largest economy , china overtook japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or more than three decades . until recently , there was little reason for this question to be questioned . hundreds of millions of chinese took to the middle class as the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed appealing to many other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which erupted in the united states and seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
in helping mexico , brazil , and other developing countries to grow , america is gaining richer trading partners . add to that a strong case for american national security , if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america helped its countries prosper , rather than trying to keep them as poor as they can for as long as possible . the reason that this narrative is wrong has turned out to be simple . there are good reasons why america adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . then the us established persistent normal trade relations with china , refusing to label its government a currency manipulator .
but it is an open question whether the still very fragmented digital-payment sectors will actually help customers more than firms offer pay-for-performance solutions . there is one more fundamental problem with arguments for some cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want this . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-of-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , in france , more than half of all payments go into cash . but , globally , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong . as is often the case in europe , the gap among member states is pronounced : the share of money transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have sunk to sunday ’s drama in cairo . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed an egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and sped up toward the frontier with israel . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s coup , in which he sacked general mohamed hussein tantawi , the leader of the army ’s chief of staff , failed to diminish the significance of the trouble there . one vehicle failed coup through the border crossings ; another intrudes israeli territory before being stopped by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) .
but just as countries that rely largely on active diplomacy and soft power have everything to lose from protracted and escalating geopolitical conflicts , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . a commitment to multilateralism is not a endorsement of the status quo . cptpp and the ceta member states recognize that the global trading system as a whole has difficulties , including incomplete or outdated rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but they also recognize that bilateralism – small countries attempting to negotiate on equal terms with currency superpowers – is not an option . to defend their interests , they must make sure that worldwide commerce is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms .
moreover , a handful of countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments are using new national sdg 16 data as part of their day-to-day decision-making . meanwhile , ghana and benin emphasize budget spending that deliver high-level sdg 16 impact , and that ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its own fiscal priorities are aligned with its stated commitments under that goal . grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators aim to complement the government-led reporting mechanism . finally , some african g-20 16 champions ” are making the targets central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all sdg public-sector stakeholders 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obligated to sign performance treaties with a central government in which identification of the sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to its mandate and to explain how these are integrated into policy and development plans .
on the global level , it is hard not to argue that inequality is one of the great political-economic problems of the world . it is hard , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would have transferring any significant proportion of today ’s rich nations ’ wealth to today ’s poorer nations . i can easily contristle alternatives , such as the communist victories of post-world war ii elections in italy and france , which would have impoverished nations now in the rich north . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriching poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 , the labor there would have done the job there . but alternatives that made the south richer at the price of cuts in wealth would require a wholesale revolution in human psychology .
other holdouts ( 6.6 % of total lenders ) would receive as much as $ 15 billion . in fact , each argentine might owe more than $ 3,500 – more than one-third of the average annual per capita income . and , because the debt restructuring has stipulated that any official lenders who accept it could claim the same terms as holdouts receive , argentina could be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . repayment on the griesa basis would devastate argentina ’s economy . nml capital and the rest of the vultures comprise just 1 % of the official creditors , but would receive $ 1.5 trillion in total .
big international finance institutions – the imf , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are being forced to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . it will be essential , following bali in may , to reflect serious results on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . the un ’s authority has frayed . business can moan and the media can carp , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or at least better – by government , not less . until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges will not do better .
getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness . economists and moralists alike believed that one should effectively spend less than you “ earning ” in order to “ save ” a default for the proverbial rainy day or old age . and if someone became insolvent , that point was to repay the obligation when they sank because of , through the sale of assets , reduced consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . well , the same attitude guided institutional debt as well . indeed , it often went more than a point : defaults on debt on time landed the borrower in jail .
the soviet union ’s abrupt collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating a sinister empire , and opening the way for china rapidly to pursue its own interests globally . more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 enabled asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . although china ’s economic renaissance was already beginning under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , after 1989 , today has established itself publicly with an ideology to build wealth creation . that example , in turn , had the constructive impact of survivors of communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitically , the post-1989 bargains extended far beyond the west .
the post-arab spring developments might provide some indication of the outlook for religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election after mohamed morsi ’s resignation from the party said that this would allow him to represent all egyptians more fully , promising to respect minority rights . similarly , rather than condemn the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , as well as al-shabaab in somalia , and the forcible removal of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents majority points , they do exert significant influence , and probably believe that they are acting in the interests of the majority . yet subsequent actions intended to give him unprecedented guidance to him raise concerns about these premature positive steps .
fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th is an historical inevitability , as is the desire of most of people in china itself . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official reevaluation is only a matter of time . this group will unite with the forces of democratizing both at home and abroad to establish a genuine democratic system . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has divided over events ever since that occurred . today , many of those responsible for a possible crack down – notably by deng xiaoping and others of the party elders – have been killed .
it has also committed special commitments with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policy , even though those constraints are not as “ “ hard ” like those framing monetary policy . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he has jettisoned his authority and allowed financial markets to veto the choice of a minister by a popularly elected government . those obligations place the real limits on italy ’s macroeconomic policy choices . in particular , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not select its own inflation target or devalue its currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . by joining the euro , italy has surrendered its monetary sovereignty over an outside , an independent , decision-maker , the european central bank .
what , on the other hand , might a pakistani liberal stand for ? in the darkness , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not the stuff of democratic liberalism , but rather for the believers who come together behind the one truly beliefs . once again , we see how misplaced western domestic priorities can bring ruin to a non-western nation . in any contest of thought , the extremes will typically triumph over a moderates . in pakistan , the extremist now wears an islamic garb and stands for the creator , for beliefs , and for a theocratic order .
there are powerful grounds for believing that they should be . japan has a relatively rigid laws protecting its welfare state . for example , most animals are required to be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as soon as possible . these laws are similar to the laws implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world that require stunned animals , rendered unconscious by gas , and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and are “ passed ” by ” “ sent out . ” there are of course circumstances in which the stunning failure and animals are killed while fully conscious ; but , when stunning works properly , it does reduce animal suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics steadfastly underestimated his skills of political communication , perhaps owing to such variance as predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , upon taking office , a series of fake statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center , but strengthened it with his foundation . though large segments of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole and sought to appeal to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as great communicators . trump , on the other hand , had appealed mainly to the minority that elected him .
it is very plausible that if , instead of joining the euro , italy and spain had simply granted their central banks more autonomy , they , too , also kept inflation today low . indeed , with southern european countries keeping their own currencies afloat , they might never have actually dug them as large a debt-to-gdp hole , and thus would have made their options for partial default through disinflation . yes , a few places like venezuela still run on triple the price growth , but are now brazil . far more important to achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that helped to keep inflation dramatically lower globally . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries were able to keep inflation well within single digits , one may presume that greece would have managed as well .
speculation about the possibility of a “ “ “ “ trump ” peaked ” in early september , when the us president suddenly cut an agreement with a democratic congress . cohn was seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and wanted to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . in fact , one can have some sympathy for trump ’s presidency with an aide to whom she wants to have both ways , as cohn had done – letting his apparent anguish get popularly known without acting . but matters can arise when a us president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn ’s sin was to allow it publicly that he had nearly resigned following the violence last month at charlottesville , virginia , when trump equated the white supremacist and neo-nazi demonstrators , many of whom were armed , with those who opposed them .
transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to income management and environmental commitment – is critical to realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . but , at least for now , the risks are as realistic as the potential rewards . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries that suffer from prior governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and ecological challenges . indeed , resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and environmental degradation . on may 17 , oxfam america ’s advocacy organization sued america ’s securities and exchange commission to issue final rule implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act .
links to west africa are close and walked back over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or men of india living in the region . while exit controls are in all international airports across affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) implies that someone with no signs from the recent infection could make a trip to india without triggering the alarms . india ’s government seems unlikely to keep tabs on all of west africa ’s arrivals . indeed , human scores fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . the recent personal experience at new delhi airport signaled that nominal coming checks , as the government demanded , were loosely coercive , with multiple travelers exiting terminal holding a completed ebola information card that was scheduled to be passed on to immigration officials .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian , large-scale public-sector cuts in any developed country ’s government have ever attempted . indeed , his education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s universities would be slashed by an amount equal to 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than the sciences and engineering that are supposedly superior to business . at the same time , the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though this is the former one that the struggle has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered the military and propaganda wave in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the national arts endowment .
the head of the interior security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspected of having currently committed opposition against libyans , has refused to call the process a “ reconciliation ” . for him , it has been “ repentance from heresy . ” for them , it has been “ fact of repentance from heresy . ” the reform “ debate ” within these regimes boiled down to a struggle between the different branches of the security-military apparatus over the best means of sustaining the status quo . given the recent wave of rebellion , it is more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” initiative adopted in the arab world previously was aimed solely at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping retribution for treating criminal abuses of power .
if credit expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on its deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the quantity of private-sector lending . this , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how it will work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise interest rates on its deposits in order to prevent an excess increase in bank lending ? sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the quantity of private-sector lending .
they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , stood at risk of crises . unfortunately , such early warning indicators are better at reflecting the last crisis than they are at preventing the next one . the nature of financial risk makes a continuous change in ways that are hard to predict the use of top-down backward-looking indicators , like those devised by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing have promised to tackle this problem . they have called for a process to ensure that as the warning lights flaked up yellow , a country in question will be compelled to correct its policies .
moreover , obama has made great efforts to suppress hundreds of photos depicting us-run sexual assault in the us , and has done nothing to file back the patriot act . so , why should obama , a female constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this way ? first , he dare not appear as “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps , efforts must be made to try guantánamo detainees in any kind of rigged settings , or even to prevent them from being subject to trial endlessly : lawyers argue that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and us army that obama might be holding scores , if not the hundreds , of prisoners , whose bodies are crime scenes . according to swedes , a un lawyer for constitutional rights representing some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling the crimes of torture practices , so that it invites them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in court .
but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering yet another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that resulted in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . specifically , us experts like hoenig , who thought about the cross-border dimensions of us bankruptcy , emphasize that it simply would n’t work for a company the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . if the us authorities – explicitly the us federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this may not be possible , they have the legal power to force the banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters and to prevent asset reflation . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without creating another “ lehman moment ” of lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that resulted in the years after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 .
paris – the central paradox of french foreign politics was confirmed once again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( such as konseiller général ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the popular vote , but it secured only 0.1 % of the seats . that discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that change , the front ’s fortunes can change as well .
new delhi – the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children throughout africa and parts of asia , a heroic achievement that should force donor countries to be proud . with technical support like that , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system that will be fully financed with indigenous resources by 2019 . i am convinced that the global fund will be one of the smartest investments that we can make , as many of its governments have understood from the start . for example , australia has channeled $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people to receive treatment on the head of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to deliver on families in need . the united states has been the global fund ’s largest supporter , but many others have done its part .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers to the world , can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundations about effective development spending . and those lessons are particularly pertinent at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should be focusing solely on domestic issues , and that letting the recipient countries cope with problems as best they can ( opposition to assistance is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ send foreign aid to the countries they hate , ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid is needed to cut . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal budget to aid , but the average american believes that this figure will be thirty-one-occasion higher . likewise , the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday papers recently launched a petition calling for cessation of its ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) .
india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and it must rely on iran for access . but the us has fallen prey to the long term in america ’s occupation , and the second is now facing a us-led oil-export embargo designed to throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s effort to give some of its international effect to its new iran sanctions act represents a double-whammy for india . first , it threatens to sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , all of which have steered clear of the arab spring . second , further isolation of iran will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan , at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement there and trying to cut an agreement with the taliban .
a key obstacle to this proposal is the demand by the us congressional authorization to increase america ’s quota share . that opens up the possibility that america ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the support of more than 85 % of imf members to vote . that guarantee could be included in the resolution dividing the reform package into two parts . a resolution dividing the reform package could be covered by that guarantee . a crucial obstacle to this proposal is the demand that the us congressional authorization will increase america ’s quota share .
by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted an equal number of other eu asylum-seekers in 2009 . but , nearly six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the southern island of lampedusa has reached roughly 30,000 . the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity in european societies has become much tougher to make . italian officials have privately confirm that current figures are ungovernable . the issue for italian officials , as for italy ’s other concerned governments , is the pressures of right-wing populist parties that no longer need for a defensive .
in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , according to the same oecd forecast , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . in addition , germany has much more internal stability than the us , because it does not have this kind of problem from the heavily indebted households that now limit its borrowing . the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s federal budget will thus amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp and , judging from the same oecd forecasts , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes great structural problems , it also implies that the nation-state reacts to an extreme cyclically and stabilizes the us economy to a very good extent that benefits the entire world .
the ossification of the brics is a de facto global institution moving forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” just a few months earlier , the four were moving toward issuing the joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member has proclaimed its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . in the private sector , the bric index cash had proliferated , although goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by making a second term , “ another 11 , ” ” ” or n-11 , to the debate . but catchy thought is dying hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current conception of an irreversible reality .
reagan ’s persistent status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out the cowboy cruelty with movie-star glamour , although luck also played a role . with his well-rehearsed sunny preoccupations , reagan expertly played his role as us president , but with a gut hollywood flair . after all , the cold war ’s victory was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union were scathing to advance his meltdown . advocating the supply-side economics for the white working class , he convinced millions that “ fewer government , ” which meant cutting back on federal programs , including on education , would bring “ morning in america . ” his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the multibillion-dollar strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was in fact nicknamed the “ star wars . ”
warsaw – had the august 1991 nato putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang may have taken hold in russia . instead of hearing a crackdowns in rebel-held , xinjiang ’s capital , perhaps we would be to read about the hundreds of thousands killed in almaty ’s streets , with columnists turning comparisons into a bloody crushing ukrainian independence demonstrations in lebanon earlier this year . the experts would remind us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that ukraine ’s claim to independence is historically dubious . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine and you will get the picture . as with china today , there would be some feeble international condemnation of this , with some even speculation about possible links between kazakh militants and exiled groups or islamic fundamentalists .
the answer is obvious : china mounted a fulcourt press to alter minds . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans being put in place to establish new currency platforms in several european financial centers . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear just how unhappy they would be with any negative decision-making . so , why was the imf flip side ? in august , the currency of the exchange-rate regime was undervalued moderately .
but foreign import and export subsidies are not the cause of america ’s large trade deficit . the real reason is that america ’s deficit is more than it generates . the overall us trade deficit is the result of saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . the reason why america ’s saving and investment decisions drive the overall us trade deficit is straightforward : when a country saves more of its total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has an extra amount of output to sell to the rest of the world . the real reason is that america spends more than it produces .
judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no amount of impact study had been conducted . there was no “ policy skeleton , ” lack of cost-benefit analysis and no evidence to suggest an alternative policy option . the truth , however , is that its design was fundamentally flawed . judging from the blizzard of the policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no amount of impact study had been conducted . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that it created , modi debated go back even further , shifting india to a totally “ cashless society . ”
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab has conducted two major attacks , to nairobi ’s northwestern gate shopping mall in 2013 , and at garissa university in 2015 , as well as many smaller acts of terror . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the islamist extremist group boko haram , famous for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in march 2014 for their abduction of 276 schoolgirls , inflicted thousands of civilian casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating the attacks on a museum and a beach resort . and in mali , soon after the strikes in paris , gunning out gunmen belonging to an al qaeda affiliate radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people .
as the elder generation dies , the new generation has fallen to fight ahead with buyers . so the saudi regime is split , its legitimacy is being challenged , and sectarian tensions are rising . that is no longer true of the thousands of princes manufactured . indeed , with the royals ’ ratio at commoners now at one in 1,000 ( compared to one out of five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of administering princely privileges , salaries , and job demand has never escalated further . royal perks include lifetime sinecures and domination of the civil service , allowing princes to award contracts and receive commissions worth their salaries .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s lenders a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” over the past year , unprecedented humanitarian efforts have pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . just as the worst drought in living memory has destroyed harvests and decimating livestock , nearly $ 1 billion has been mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , public health , and clean water provision for water . that was back in 1986 , ahead of schedule and initiatives that have removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burdens . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia .
the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting virtually all risky emerging-market assets – have not exactly been pretty so far . there is a strong probability that a weaker american growth rate and lower inflation will push it to slow the rate of its withdrawal from liquidity support . whether or not a correction in risky assets is temporary , or a fresh start in a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will actually truly exit from qe as quickly as it has signaled . brazil and other countries complaining about “ hot money ” inflows and currency wars , ” ” ” ” ” now has suddenly gotten what it wanted : the likely early exit of the fed from qe .
berkeley – since late 2014 , the us has been advocating a model for american governance based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution , which states that “ powers not delegated to the united states by the us constitution , not prohibited by it to the states respectively , or to the people . ” the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not exulate the current war . increasingly , california has been exercising those constitutional rights on its own . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
i moderated a session on “ “ new context ” in east asia , ” addressed by a panel of prominent representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the notable exception of the jordanian participant , suddenly had experience with the wrenching asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . i could not oppose the temptation to draw asia into the european debate . europe is slipping back into recession , just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction . nevertheless , i have taken away a different conclusion from davos .
brilliant scientific minds have learned over the course of many decades to “ read ” the earth ’s history , with an understanding of how the climate system actually works . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites that read the detailed features of the earth ’s ’s ’s systems of systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : the large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving us extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that damage food supplies and the quality of life for the planet .
some commentators have begun to point out a different view among the us and europe concerning the role of international law , in sharp contrast to the use of force , in dispute-settlement cases . because europeans are militarily irrelevant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than a military might , settle disputes . some advocates of integration see a united europe as strongly a us partner . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival power center , however unrealistic that seems to be . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe under constraints when taking advantage of america ’s military hegemony .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system has failed to fulfill its flagship task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , analyzed whatever happened , and take this analysis to account in reforming those arrangements . indeed , we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees , in order to ensure equal pan-european security security security security . the europeans believe that the russian initiative is well grounded , and have shown an interest in launching such a project . even before the georgian crisis , russia already saw a need for a european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and their state posts .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and other white supremacists be met with violence ? this question culminated in the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest the planned removal from the public park of a sculpture of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a woman , heather heyer , was killed , and 19 people injured when james fields , a young nationalist , drove his car at high velocity to a crowd of counter-protesters . the counterprotest was organized and the street fighting broke out .
china ’s modest experimentation with local elections was complemented by exercises in a “ deliberative democracy . ” chinese officials hired a stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of book citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling machinery and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 million publicly works budget . the zeguo exercise was considered immensely successful , and was replicated elsewhere in china . and wen has indicated that his village elections could be extended to the next highest levels of government – the township administrations , in addition to in the coming years . these take the form of high-level , university-hall meetings with a group .
the eu , japan , and the us would be even more effective if they aligned their policies to deny criminals access to their markets , and allowed legitimate operators to benefit from a “ supercharged ” level of access . european regulators had already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access for countries with record levels of illicit fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and assisted by their support of “ yellow or red carded ” countries . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people . working together could enable the use of an affordable , ingenious technology for seafood traceability , on data and the intelligence gathering to help pinpoint exactly where seafood came from , and when and by whom it passed . such efforts , for example , provide the who ’s electronic bluin tuna to catch up , represent one of the most effective tools for eliminating illicit fishing .
yet the urban poor , faced with bad housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based illnesses , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental illnesses . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters , such as the outbreak and mudslides that devastated rural areas in rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that the dense concentrations of poverty help create fragile settings that spawn ciwn into civilian misery , leading to death and injury . but a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and maintain urban health by capturing the inherent benefits of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from opportunities for innovation created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activities .
this was followed , in june 2001 , by the court ’s decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last to present the evidence against these individual individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first efforts to bring high military officers to trial . regrettably , the trials backfired indefinitely , because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed to the case . our achievements in myrna mack law are notable , but achieving them have proved difficult : police interrogation was assassinated ; the judges were compromised ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i have been harassed and dinner campaigns to discredit me organized .
proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we face a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced the tipping point last month , with its annual climate-change and ground-level report . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , as well as regions and towns , have now formally recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action . that certainly was n’t happening at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland .
it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or power to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to rally the europeans themselves . finally , macron ’s ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a large diplomatic role in france , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is rather simple : partly by default , and partly as a result of its young president ’s sheer power and imagination , this is france ’s moment . mediating between different systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of others has been charles de gaulle ’s ’s natural instinct . in france , meanwhile , europe ’s strength with its closest historical and geographic relationship with russia is at the end of the political cycle .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules along harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as transitory expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . thus , they contemplated only a “ thin ” form of globalization , with capital flows restricted largely to long-term borrowing and borrowing . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970s due to ungovernability or unwillingness , it was not exactly obvious which , from leading governments , managed the rising tide of capital flows . they understood the extent to which democratic countries would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . the third path that the trilemma identified is to do away with national sovereignty completely .
because technological innovations there are faster in history than in the entire nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by a heightened atmosphere of fear . but if this makes the conventional arms-control treaty impossible to verify , one might still set limits on certain kinds of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) , and negotiate rough rules of the road that limit conflict . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the constraints and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to their own economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations about the utility of cyberwarfare may change . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will find it difficult to maintain . over time , however , improved attribution forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and improved defenses through encryption or machine learning may enhance the role of prevention and denial .
likewise , the eu ’s decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the agreement proposed by un secretary general anders fogh rasmussen . even then the us agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia moved from supporting its territorial integrity to cracking down on the country in less than three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do so . the georgian conflict was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence . in georgia , russia now must question its relations with short-run military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europeans rely far too much on america for its own security and prosperity . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow the chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . the democracies that have built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide .
knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to harness the expanding global information-technology of influencing diplomacy . beyond that , modern international diplomacy has more and more reliance on rule-making groups , set standards , and gather technical data . around the world , new institutions are emerging that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly in programs that certify sustainable resource use , as in the case of forests and fisheries . knowledge-based organizations are forming a broad range of alliances with media , playing an important role in influencing public opinion as they do in diplomacy . a host of international negotiations over issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit such alliances .
nor was the strong showing by populist parties in this month ’s italy , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement jointly secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany has , to some extent , fallen prey to populist forces . in a country that has seemingly been inoculated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development . to be sure , a new grand coalition government , comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) , has formed . but it took more than five months for parties to agree , and arguably the largest opposition party is now the far-right alternative for germany .
most importantly , the government appears backtracking on a commitment to authorize a binding referendum to open up the national oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , and no one will invest one more than another in mexican petroleum or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because the opposition claims will happen . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers of political and electoral reforms . reelection is permissible only for candidates nominated by the same party for which they originally ran and permit stronger legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain elusive .
but that escape clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( which suggested , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy was excessively loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it neither was preceded nor followed by an upsurge in inflation . regardless of the form it took , it began to get some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to the crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that central banks that relied on it had not paid enough attention to asset-price bubbles . central bankers had told themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention they earned , by specifying that house prices and equity prices could accept the extent of implied information about the prices of goods had fallen . that boom-and-bust cycle could not have come as a surprise .
that fine is $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the current average employer-provided family-planning premium . employers can dodge a mandate by cutting a worker ’s ’s workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as a full-time job ) . but even for full-time employees , firms may opt for paying a relatively small fine , rather than providing insurance . rather than incur the premium cost of an agreed policy , a smart employer can pay the fine for not making mobile payments and raising employee pay by enough to make them more spendable cash once he has received an subsidized insurance policy . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its staff have incomes that entitle them to us government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose income is below four times the poverty line ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare falling short , want their personal revenge , and therefore continue their assault on blair for his `` `` present '' lies . '' thus far , blair has a proven track record of such charges . indeed , he has gone on the counterstrike , most notably against the bbc , which has failed precisely to foster the war with enthusiasm . but does the uncertainties that are now swirling blair like a vulture present , smelling the appetizingly foul odr ? or is all the more a question of the prime minister losing the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
here america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . here america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . yet , without us support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the united nations economic and social council ( osce ) in late july . on the antitorture protocol , the americans sought to derail the creation of a universal comprehensive system of visit to places of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . on the anti-torture protocol , the americans sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to sites of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture .
it must lead in mobilizing europeans to make the global economy work for the people , protect them from injustices and inequity . nor will it be enough to remember the historic benefits of eu engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained a sole mastery of europe . what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as europe ’s leader . the british , having always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should be ready once again to lead a progressive movement , informed action to fight climate change , resist protectionism , and spur sustainable growth . just as britain once led europe into the fight against fascism , endorsing its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be inside europe leading from front ranks .
when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are n’t simply passive consumers , given that the company traffics in its data . as long as a company sells you a car that , say , is inadequately tested , resulting in injury , a company is paying a price . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign that “ customers beware . ” the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airline to food suppliers . yet expectations of reasonable consumer protection are building up in our economies .
the implied model is that of italy ’s “ guest worker ” who arrives and goes ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from the poorer parts of europe remains in their destination country , fueling a surge in support for the anti-immigrant parties . the asylum system is totally unprepared to handle the new generations of refugee ineligible under the existing framework because they flow not out of specific act of persecution , but from the degradation of their states . they can be granted “ humanitarian protection ” or be granted “ discretionary leave ” to remain ” for a brief period ; but then be deported as illegal migrants . so , by all accounts , what is to be done ? a temporary residency state , in europe or externally imposed , would be reasonably reasonable if a rapid return to normalcy in refugee ’ countries was a realistic prospect .
in her brief lifetime , she was frequently lauded for her own qualities ( her beauty and style ) that were , her secondary to her life ’s work , and derided for different points in her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal life ) that were just beside the point . in other words , mrs. obama manages to establish herself unprecedentedly high as the “ people ’s first lady . ” as a result , few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative her agenda has been , how well she has thought out , and how audaciously she has tried to manage it . she has meticulously studied not only jackie – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but stealth radical , princess diana . princess di ’s ’s ’s legacy in generating the iconography that has opened the way for tremendous social change grossly underappreciated .
instead , both are finding themselves busy designing another round of stimulus to involve even more political and policy risks . the protracted brexit process strengthens the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , with the short-run impact on the rise of governments ’ distortionary trade tariffs complicates the task of both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , certain pro-growth policies currently mooted could , if not well designed , magnify the risks of disruptive financial instability , and thus further complicating central bankers ’ task . the notion of beggar-thy-neighbor qe ” – that is , an increasingly direct channeling by central-bank financing toward the population – is gaining greater attention from both sides of the political spectrum on both sides . additional risks are already giving the major central bankers the headaches of their own .
clearly , ak zhol has used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . indeed , an increasing number of opposition groups have engaged in dirty tricks . he himself has presided over the many violations , an fact observed by the osce back in 1999 . in doing so , he resigned only after he won the elections to a parliamentary vote . in return , however , the elections represented significant progress .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war . in fact , china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been impressive indeed .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . asean continues to face significant challenges . over the short term , it seems that it will move like a crab , with two steps forward , one step back , to one step in . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . its combined gdp has grown from nearly $ 95 trillion in 1970 to just $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 .
as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory rests on the assumption of humans being rational , so that they systematically maximize individual happiness , or , as economists call it , their “ utility . ” under samuelson ’s ’s ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical architecture underlying thought and behavior , but instead on the assumption of rationality . people ’s objectives are identified only through observing their own economic activities . when samuelson took up the topic in his 1947 book the great depression , he looked not in brazil , but relied instead on “ revealed preference . ”
central-bank balance sheets expanded , with policy rates reaching their “ near zero ” levels of bounds . there is plenty of cheap water , seemingly , but somehow the horse refuses to drink . with no signs of low inflation , and growth still tepid and fragile , many are predicting a chronic slowdown , with some even fearing the next global recession . but policymakers have one further alternative : a shift to “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which it directly finances government spending by printing money , the so-called “ helicopter drop . ” the new money would circumvent the financing of finance and corporate sectors , and go straight to the thirstiest cohorts : middle – and lower-income consumers .
the case went to a local court where a judge ruled it an “ accidental traffic misfire ” and gave the driver a two-year sentence suspended . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he went easy on to pass because her husband was high-profile provincial officials . alarmed by a public reaction , the harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened , only to have a suspended sentence confirmed when the case closed this march . alarmed by a public reaction , the harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened , only to have a suspended sentence confirmed when the case closed this march . this quickly became the “ rich versus the poor , ” widely cited as an example of high-level corruption .
that power has risen for several reasons , the most important being demographic . recurrent military interventions in large muslim nations ( in egypt , indonesia , pakistan , somalia , and turkey ) have impeded an orderly political development . but , with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development has been able to move ahead despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at the age of 90 – to the upper end of the twenties . but these countries ’ mushrooming middle classes have begun to shift their respective political systems in another direction , a testament to the power that they now wield .
the objective is to implement a whole comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the capacity of courts and government ministers in order to boost spending relentlessly . the rules are required to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , requiring transparency in a way that the public knows what ’s going on . though latin america ’s economies are currently doing well through reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . third , ’s on the panel ’s list is increased investment in building and maintaining infrastructure . with an effective commitment to building fiscal credibility , countries could raise their rates of economic expansion substantially .
second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for a sustained period of success , avoiding the allure of recent bright innovations . too often , developing countries have seized upon new technologies – from distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! all too often , developing countries have seized upon new technologies – from distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! this has resulted in many disappointing , failing to deliver sustainable impact at scale . a new report by the “ technology prosperity commission ” pathways and inclusive development commission , based at oxford university ’s blavatnik school of government , suggests how countries can address this problem .
this is partly because trees can not continue forever : china ’s economy could not keep growing at 10 % a year each . but , globally , it is hard to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . and partly because growth is not unsupportable : citizens may be better off with a much lower bound on average and more clean air . but many countries remain poor enough to be enamored with strong growth potential , and many more , however rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . so there must be something different in keeping with the return of growth .
using weapons of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a curiously violent border dispute with cambodia ) , royalist-conservative movements implicitly point to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff . in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised red tape camped in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections , but dispersed the army , with a total of 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and loss of credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , the country ’s red shirts grew in number , revealing monthly against abhisit ’s government . pad ringleaders are now denouncing all politicians as “ corrupt ” and extol the virtue of the monarchy . and , more than two years later , pad yellow t-shirts have also returned to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit .
industrial analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . in any technological transition , those leading the transformation can not lose sight of the human element ; there are a few things even the smartest machines never do . gartner , a survey and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled ai will generate $ 2.9 trillion in commercial value by 2021 , whereas pwc predicts that ai could make as many as $ 15.7 trillion in the global economy by 2030 . some estimates indicate that ai could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and ai ’s contribution will go well beyond saving , as automation will spur innovations , improvements in forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to better customer service .
as is so often the case , all of them are not what you do n’t know , but what you mistook that hurts you . they should be doing a few things very well , and exchanging it for more goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade . but , while some ideas are counterintuitive or obvious , they may be wrong and dangerous as well . and the notion that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that they are therefore supposed to specialize , is being one of those highly erroneous and hazardous ideas . for they can not be good at all , they must focus on what they are best at – that is , on their own comparative advantage .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . it can continue to do no more than its bare minimum to preserve the euro . made matters worse , and , in the longer term , it is bound to become unsustainable . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after her next election . europe would be needlessly better off had germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would have been better off as well .
both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better terms than ever before . for russia , closer ties with china are no doubt tempting . following five years of international sanctions imposed against russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , prior to putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s , soviet-style dissident song , “ the people are brothers ; i ’ll hug the chinese , ” ” ” ” ” who mocked ill-fated early attempts at the russo-chinese union ( cpp ) . but the bilateral relationship has deepened in significantly lately , exemplified in last week ’s forum , resulting in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering fields ranging from agriculture to technology .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will end on june 30 , which is the perfect timing for the polish opposition . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the american could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war . in fact , following a parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , with opposition voters already seeing tusk as the only viable candidate .
you do n’t particularly want a daily lending to them , but if someone is prepared to pay , say , $ 200 to an rent on a dinner party , the trouble might keep the price . and if you want it to pay , rezz.it helps to collect without feeling as cheapskate . and you may post various prices for different times : $ 20,000 to make my home in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 any other amount . so you can put a high price to compensate for inconvenience and make money on the side . or you may have a bundle of unused dining chairs .
getting the deal done before thanksgiving will be critical of undergird america ’s business and consumer confidence during the christmas season . following high-level talks between chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer earlier this month , the outstanding issues are to be agreed in beijing in early november . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may throw the wrench into this process . i am one of the few commentators who have argued on this occasion all year that , in spite of the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make the deal seem more likely than not . fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as a last chance to sign an agreement .
european union institutions , as in germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” ” ” ” while france favors the notion of “ european sovereignty . ” in trying to make clear matters , france , spain , and i have lately proposed an operationalized definition of a “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one of eu priorities , and push one ’s own decisions on foreign policy and security matters , combined with france and italy ’s institutional , political , and material means of realizing such choices , either in cooperation with third parties or alone when needed . we also analyzed the likely obstacles , hardship , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue that goal . but both concepts are often used interchangeably , and are rarely defined explicitly .
in fact , the eradication of poppy crops not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it is also fail : last year ’s opium production was at an all-time high . in september , the un office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation soared by as much as 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys a single crop that will grow in the south ’s harsh climate , thereby serving as the principal source of income to millions of people . so a new , long-lasting , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages with the very communities suffering the most – in order to reach out to today ’s deeply impoverished rural populations . as a way to tackle this dilemma , the senlis council proposes to run science pilot projects for research into the opium licensing system of afghanistan , an essential component of the economic reconstruction process .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , wish only to live in peace and lay the groundwork for the prolonged humiliation of islam that only the overthrow of democracy and development in the muslim world can make that possible . but the bush administration scares the us , and vice versa . muslim faith counts a billion men and women worldwide among its adherents . its concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations that was predicated a decade ago and which must be avoided . approximately five percent of them have declared a war on our civilization , and are ready for participation in assassination to put an end to western domination .
nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , with no approval of their parliaments , to a potential liability to bail out spain – very well , whom it , exactly ? it would have meant accepting in 2012 what was then called “ centralization risk ” ” – an economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . indeed , it seems to have established that the typical northern european taxpayer supports a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are overly exposed to southern european debtors . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting the bailouts and currency financing of eurozone members ’ debt . but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk possibility for the ecb .
such a partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran that is more than is prepared to counter sunni radicals in iraq and syria . at the same time , trump has expressed his interest in working with russia to remove isis , seemingly oblivious to the fact that russia ’s involvement in syria is focused on propping up assad ’s regime . by equating efforts with isis to the us-led fight against the soviet union , trump has elevates the terrorist organization to the status of great-power status . this contributes to the perceptions that isis is far more potent than actually is ; again , playing into the hands of isis recruiters . iran is now pushing for russian long-range bombers to use one of its airbase in order to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous efforts to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin regarding the end of the civil war .
in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeded the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact ( sgp ) . as it stands , europe ’s economic output per capita remains well below the levels of 2008 . and , in fact , the status quo is in urgent need of change . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans want a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly in health care and education ) , but also that they are ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to accomplish them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said they would favor change to the status quo , even if it requires some sacrifice .
colombo , sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and the rate of education and health statistics has been impressive . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but that is especially the case for a country that suffered an acute thirty years ’ worth of civil war . underlying wars like fighting the tamil tigers are typically ; social and economic grievances like real or perceived levels of discrimination and the government ’s failure to tackle wealth and income gaps adequately . but success will require a comprehensive approach .
the west democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in a great military struggle . and condemning nazism might have been incorrectly misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . but any denunciations of communism ’s pius would have exploited nazi propaganda as the support of hitler ’s wartime effort . very few of the people at the vatican – indeed , all of europe at large – had any real knowledge during those days of the vast industrial might of the united states . the pope believed that it could either condemn both totalitarian powers or to denounce neither .
conversely , should the equivalent of even a unified closed-off room appear anywhere , the ensuing losses extend through the network as a whole . indeed , i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival even surpass that of petroleum exporting , the roles that it played for the twentieth century as an energy revolution . data traveling forward instantaneously around the world are uninterested in national boundaries . networked , its effects and advantages multiply , and then accelerate further . by its nature , data easily overflow physical constraints .
but as their experience reveals – along with lessons from many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam – deep trade liberalization hardly ever played a factor in fostering higher growth and expanded trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catching on to this simple reality . meanwhile , severe economic reform did not begin until 1991-93 . for both india and china , both did raise trade substantially , both are viewed as globalizers with the criterion of the world bank . governments in both countries have shifted their scarce political capital and administrative resources to areas beyond trade liberalization .
i felt a prodigious , restless energy that i hoped he could not turn off had he wished before starting my observation , he took me to a map of vietnam , and asked me to locate the zones of devastation . i said that i did indeed , but that it was in longhand . i felt it that the request was an exam – one that i was prepared to take , as i carried maps with me in forward air-control aircraft . he seemed deeply engaged but made no comment , asking me only if i had anything in writing . he suggested that i produce typed copy , providing me with the office of the general .
at present , these kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks ; instead , apps intended to collect and share agricultural information become ever more accessible . in egypt , for example , sudan and ethiopia , locally expanded service delivery brings real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . in west africa , private companies like crop ignitia spread the accuracy and accuracy of sms are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of alerts to distant farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive disease outbreaks to help them maintain the health of their farm animals .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another grand-sounding call to reverse the retreat of globalization . to be sure , efforts have been made to grasp the current slowdown . but the premise is a simplistic one , at best . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what has drove growth in trade in recent decades . faltering trade , it is assumed , must constitute an adverse trend .
finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . that is all the more relevant in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as an anchor of currency may take on even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation has become the norm for the world ’s major exporters , first beginning with the us , then japan , and now europe . if china joins that race to the bottom , others will be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets will suffer yet another source of serious instability . just as china has resisted the temptation of currency depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 , a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must remain the course today .
at the same time , policymakers and senior economists need to take a closer look at how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , better-designed protections should be improved for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . prolonging the current expansion will demand great care . for their part , america needs a well-directed approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers , especially in congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes , while doing even more to promote growth . and , even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would start from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debts .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ “ supervision , ” ” in which it monitors , investigated , and consults on any country ’s specific economic policies , under both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerability and safeguard economic stability . nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges demand fresh look at the process . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make its focus more properly and efficient . that is one of the most significant reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was conceived .
four measures are needed to accomplish this . first , a debt conference is needed , with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forging a piece of the debt . lenders relinquishing part of their claims must comprise public entities , first and foremost the ecb , which has now largely replaced private lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to restoring competitiveness through price and wage cuts runs too deep and grueling , and whose societies at risk of being able to borrow asunder through the necessary imposition of austerity , must temporarily exit the monetary union . meanwhile , the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help , which would be unnecessary for a long time , because a devaluation of the new currency would restore competitiveness quickly .
this is significant , because ukraine has only partly satisfied imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . these three steps would fail to resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu and the us . finally , the eu should insist that ukraine ’s authorities halt all politically motivated criminal cases and release those that are incarcerated in developing political crimes . steps in that direction would greatly improve the ukrainian government ’s relations with the eu and america . selective use of justice badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputations .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s own national interest , trump , soon after his summit with putin invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and wish to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , such as that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík in 1986 . putin has just reciprocated with an invitation to trump to come to the kremlin . instead , trump ’s actions just look more kowtowing , raising other american leaders ’ hackles . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy as much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – this month , europeans will head to the polls this month to choose the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent their 507 million people . given the perceived remoteness of the european parliament and widespread frustration with the european bureaucracy , the level of participation and movement toward supranational politics is noteworthy . to be sure , the european parliament election brought smaller share of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . still , participation rates over the past decade are comparable to the average turnout in america ’s congressional elections . how the election campaign unfolded marks a small but significant gain in the creation of the first supranational political space in europe – indeed , the world – of history .
to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as when an fbi ’s chief has personally welcomed one of bin laden ’s lieutenants to his garden party . nevertheless , it is just this highly personalized form of us politics that saudi royals have adopted with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , that policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . highly personalized politics forms an element of what might be called saudi arabia ’s “ theatre of state ” that keeps the royals firmly in power . nevertheless , the bomb was not encased in metal , and a terrorist was the only person killed .
it has been said of prime minister levi eshkol that he has spoken out at seven languages , all in yiddish . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset at the rough and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to move out of the government in the wake of the yom kippur war . perhaps the eban was too urbane , too much a scholar and gentleman who was able to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to a summit with the greasy pole . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave the government in 1974 .
but whether europe as a whole avoids a lost decade of economic growth still hangs in the balance , working to gain fast to restore competitiveness . as a result , southern europeans embraced an economic configuration where their wages , prices , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for each € 12 that it earned , with northern european governments financing the missing euro . as a result , southern europeans embraced an economic configuration in which their wages , prices , and productivity levels made perfect sense only so long as it spent € 13 for each € 12 that it earned , with northern european governments financing the missing euro . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend at extraordinarily easy times to those in the south keen to spend , and ample pre-2007 expenditures made employers there willing to raise wages rapidly . meanwhile , northern europe adopted wages and productivity levels , which only so long as it spent less than one european country that it earned .
a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including a potential no-deal brexit and populist gain in the european parliament election in may . of course , while trump is not spared his allies , his primary target remains china . after all , competition between america and china extends far beyond trade . though the us maintains military , tech , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan us support within america for a more confrontational approach . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and even more us military aggression .
a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies – such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment – is the heavily contingent nature of its success . few of the policies are working off the shelf and reliably across heterogeneous settings . competitions between states and localities to attract big employers with taxation and other subsidies work particularly badly . recent high-profile foxconn and amazon deals , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have exploded . they can be responded and periodically revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms .
shanghai – china faces the difficult challenge of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular expansion . indeed , china has the benefit that other countries in today ’s ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . if it does , its per capita annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . so , naysayers abound , but never do it any longer in their minds . if china carries out a sustained , comprehensive pro-growth efforts , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the tail risks of the financial crisis , and complete its consumption-fueled economy with a large and affluent middle class .
london – as governments across western europe started bailing out their banks and depositors , east europeans have followed nervously , uncertain of what the global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , the fragile eurobonds of european solidarity are being tested . if the situation continues until the end of the year can not be ruled out , many more countries might be able to experience severe banking crises . two countries , hungary and ukraine , already have asked for large imf support packages . a few more could be done over the next month , if frozen credit markets do not act as a thaw .
sugar , for example , is consistently an ingredient with the highest scores on the yale level of food dependency scale , which measures people ’s food cravings . the processed food industry claims that you need the types of sugar to live . but the big question for health-care professionals is whether there are the quantity or quality of nutritious diets that foods are supposed to share . some health researchers argue that specific components of processed foods , especially sugar , are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . this highlights an important distinction , because quantity is determined by users , whereas quality is determined by industry .
last year alone , the world polio eradication initiative delivered almost two billion doses of polio vaccine coverage to 575 million children in 94 countries . a closely coordinated effort by amongst the private sector and community partners to deliver oral polio vaccines to every child under the age of five was the key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies worked closely with national governments , draallying the exact needs of the massive polio immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . in individual countries , as part of the who ’s health minister , un health organization agencies , unicef , other un agencies , professional staff groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations ( who are a part of every immunization campaign . in every country , community as part of vaccines and committed to deliver vaccines to otherwise inaccessible cancer areas , to refrigerators and cold-storage facilities needed to keep vaccines potent , even the batteries needed to power them , were counted and budgeted .
in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 might offer the defense of a rules-based system . that has long been the strategy of russia , and it is now being embraced by china and the us . still , one wonders whether the eu is in a position to spearhead a united front . for example , in 2016 , the southern and eastern eu member states that rely on chinese investment managed to head off a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . with the bloc splintering into distinct policymaking tribes , it has become easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy .
amid high growth this year , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approaching the country ’s presidential election , given president olusegun obasanjo ’s hyper-minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . but the headwinds of globalization have been meant to slam the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiencies . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its standing in the world , and , in both cases , economic efficiency and governance will make it better . harvard political scientist enrique peña h kapur suggests why this does not happen .
florence – europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s ’s ’s ’s unification process have recently shifted their focus to that of the united states ’ founding . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , the creation of the american constitution and the birth of the american people offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be resolved . many , meanwhile , reject an american precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are all too dissimilar from those encountered then . others , accepting that federalist principles might go well to resolve europe ’s common market ’s problems , are desperation that the “ europeans ” who could bring on this new political structure miss .
moscow – ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has shown himself to be at the helm , even preening to photos at the top of tight-knit leather outfit of his very favorite motorcycle . and that shift would take place at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , must be keeping putin up at night , or they would not be fully dispersed with so unabated brutality . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , putin could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to khorasan ’s border province and to the arabization of persia , with persians grabbing arab names and transitions to islam . mass conversion to islam among persians was a critical first step toward establishing the country ’s first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslims . the effort by different forces seeking to control or re-establish a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history . by 651 , nearly all of the major urban centers in persia have been under arab control , adding momentum to the process . at various times during history , caliphates broke down in asia , africa , and parts of europe .
back in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as the price of oil that had ballooned to $ 40 per barrel , recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would return to stagflation in the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . now all of these short-term factors have been depleted , a brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation has begun . russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reluctance to fight against corruption and its strengthening of the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse yet stable , political equilibrium . russia ’s ’s ’s political elite understands that the us economy is capable of achieving 5-6 % annual growth . confident enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though averaging a respectable 4 % , proved to be driven by the post-crisis recovery and further rising oil prices to $ 100/barrel .
still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have suggested a “ standalone emergency fiscal facility ” that would allow the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger sustained fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no risk of runaway inflation . following this logic , in the uk , the labor party has proposed a “ people ’s ” qe , ” ” ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . despite differences in terminology , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks are needed to stimulate aggregate demand when the next slump is over . others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , the former chairman of the authority of the uk financial services authority , have called on “ helicopter drops ” : an outright monetary transfer to consumers through central-fiscal deficits .
most other developing countries , i know that spending far too little money is being devising good projects . when the private sector does that , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often deeply difficult because a large number of difficult-to-be-coordinate public-sector decision-making or action occurs . bidders need a plan for two phases : engineering , procurement and construction structure ( epc ) and a multi-c phase of operation management when toll revenues accumulate to recover incurred costs and expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties along the two phases , but especially during the epc , which can last 3-7 years , depending on the successful project . so , let ’s assume an agreed toll road project , concession contracts are ready , and the firms bid on it .
besides , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing the greens finance.investors and rating agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios in order to potentially “ stranded assets , ” ” such as the oil-and-gas projects that will become outdated as the more renewable-energy technology becomes commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than was previously anticipated , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will increasingly risky the devaluation . with some governments abandoning their past commitments to cut emissions , one might think that the global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change , or ignore the resolve of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not . still , to obtain and maintain all governments on board , the low-carbon transition must be inclusive .
a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a tendency that struggles for old values , like honor and virtue . in practice , such movements have also been motivated by little more than fear of change . but here individuals who have been active in the former yugoslavia movement for “ solidarity ” – for them a movement of community rather than individual , a movement for public rather than private liberty – form the new bloc of euro-antagonists . a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a tendency that struggles for old values , like honor and virtue . recently , a member of parliament ( quite a big one – 30 deputies ) – abandoned the majority of the post-solidarity party and formed a new “ polish family ” with the motto that the ruling coalition is in “ brussels . ”
an alternative hypothesis , which seems to fit the facts , recently emerged from paul woolley center for a study of dysfunctionality in capital markets at the london school of economics . researchers there argue that in fragile , highly speculative industries ( and finance , for example , has certainly been in that category in recent years ) , it is difficult for investors to monitor those who manage their money . that may be part of the story , but competition for talent and for customers appears acute between investment banks and others ; nonetheless , they collectively have rewarded them extravagantly at the expense of those customers . they may see some short-term returns , but they do not understand very well how those returns are generated . in fact , managers may try to demand higher rates and higher returns when the upturn causes them .
the united states consistently ranks among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including insead ’s global innovation index . conversely , bhutan is among the world ’s top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not make it up even onto innovation indices . yet , on the world peace index , it is ranked 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , broadly fifth , and sixth on the economic index , but behind only 28th and 29th on a un peace index . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to precipitate a total breakdown of laws and order dramatically impede creativity and innovation .
germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the greens have been growing stronger . but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp but who is , in fact , the liberal spitzenkandidat – whereas lengthening them for michel barnier coming from the epp but is not the spitzenkandidat . if the council succeeds in ruling out weber and his populist posturing , macron will claim that this represents a success . finally , the elections provide a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become the united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s annual tenure in office . annan has inspired the world with his own diplomacy and leadership on reducing poverty and human rights ; yet the war in iraq has divided the world , drawing the attention and financial resources from crisis regions and critical long-term issues such as climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . aside from its enduring long-term challenges of extreme poverty , environmental and nuclear proliferation , and un reform efforts , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of vietnamese hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia in global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention from one of the most critical challenges facing our planet . recent attempts to influence developments in these countries through threats and sanctions , and , sometimes of war , have failed .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all in us trade policy during the 1930 ’s has greatly aggravated the great depression . an outfit called the global trade alert ( gta ) came to the fore , raising alarm bells about what it calls a protectionist juggernaut . the gta ’s latest growth report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 , with china as the most common target . in fact , that number has been widely quoted as the financial press in switzerland . many are complaining that something similar , if less propitious , is occurring today .
given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the cost of social benefits for migrants ? host countries might assume responsibility for pooling benefits like unemployment insurance , sick credits , and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits that are not related to hiring relationships , such as taxpayer grants to remain at home and to migrants who are too old or ill to work when they arrive . such a change would create a more win-win situation for the eu , for it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and gives the british grounds to reconsider their exit decisions with their heads held high . if people come to a country to earn higher wages , the pie available for distributing gets larger ; but if they do come for welfare benefits , the pie would get smaller .
it became common knowledge in europe that either the ongoing crisis will destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that with no solidarity-based solutions to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be salvaged . what needs to be done has long been an obvious one . the prize in switzerland ’s monetary union ’s survival , and thus that of the european project , is a more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . those who oppose this , because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will need to accept europe ’s re-nationalization – and thus its exit from the world stage . no alternative , and certainly not a statusquo , will work .
to investors , the reform process might appear impossibly long and hesitancy . so the outcome of a few months might be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” but , via the standards for international negotiations and european governance , italy has fared exceptionally fast . the eu is not deprived of its tools – its so-called “ structural funds ” ” ” that financing investment in poorer regions , but it has no strategy for using them . more bugs will need to be fixed , including new bugs found in fixes .
its schools are funded by local communities and work within the national curriculum , designed by parliament and government . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often perceived as homogeneous massacres where all students can be educated on an equal pedagogical approach . but schools must be empowered to fulfill individual children ’s needs and capacity in ways that make learning a stimulating adventure . although educational opportunity and structures have been gradual , a major shortcoming of most of europe ’s educational systems remains : students have far too few options , and teachers , if they want to remain in their occupation , must adhere to severe compartmentalized pedagogy . other countries may find sweden ’s system worth studying .
from this standpoint , they are both in and out of the prison system , with little chance of ever regaining the rule of law that allows them to escape poverty . from this perspective , they happen both in and out of the prison system and have little chance of ever regaining the rule of law that allows them to escape from poverty . drug users ’ children often become drug users themselves ; at the same time , they frequently end up in prison or suffering from violence or early deaths . their children grow up without a mother at home and devoid of any hope and support . what is mad about this is that america has missed an obvious point – one that has missed it for more than 40 years .
the comparison between the two approaches is clear . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortfalls have not become a major problem in itself , thanks to a fairly open-ended immigration policy that has enabled the country to harness the talent that colombia , among other countries , has proved unable to maintain . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that if it were adopting the best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody will come . and , if they do n’t , they can still bask in the international accolades that they are receiving from foreign actors . a non-residential construction boom this created helped not only enable the departure of labor-intensive rural areas , but also achieve a remarkable reduction in inequality .
on the global level , those spending too much – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , italy , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consume , and import less . thus , the us will be weak in stimulating global aggregate demand , pushing global growth far below it . moreover , there is now massive public-sector retrenchment in advanced economies , with huge budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , a countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and immense cost of socializing the financial system ’s losses . yet “ over-saving ” countries – brazil , china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . at best , the us faces a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments start feeding through high rates of consumption and investment .
new york – the global dimension of this crisis has , surprisingly , also has a positive side . the current crisis , the fall of wall street , is to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . so far , a major part of the problem has been the lack of any effort to cooperate . the international community is now charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar catastrophe in the future . previous demands for more stringent regulation came about nothing , owing to the financial sector ’s opposition .
in advocating the disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their continuing contest over the importance of life . indeed , unlike the militant liberalism of the french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from exercising the coercive power of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . it is because of the enduring importance of this great debate that the state should aspire to be a more neutral world . indeed , just as much remains to be seen , the liberal state ought to be neutral on such issues , leaving it to every citizen to establish whether it should cede its financial support to the church of rome or its one at bayreuth . after all , if state ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigration the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the former , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , are on the rise . while international cooperation on regulatory reform has been difficult to achieve on piecemeal basis , it may prove attainable in the grand bargain that reigarranges the entire international financial order . following a path of least resistance will lead to the gradual decay of the international financial system . a new , sounder multilateral system , must be invented .
mario monti , italy ’s commissioner for competition policy in the european union , often comes into the limelight , typically sounds popular acclaim . today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are at stake , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . within a few weeks , the run-up to the european court of justice ( to which private parties may appeal to make decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions that rejected the proposed corporate mergers . with the competition case against the software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , the eu commissioner monti will need to overhaul his footing fast . over the years , he has won important victories restricting government aid to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies .
droughts and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and sufficient resources , may be averted . however , time and again , humanitarian assistance in africa has arrived short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity was predicted long before the first famine struck . making matters worse , these kinds of tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises were approaching . thus , many proud and dignified people were stripped of their livelihoods , forcing them to rely on one minuscule food per day or nothing at all .
the bottom chessboard comprises transnational relationships that cross borders beyond the control of governments , all from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to supranational terrorism . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . on this bottom board is the degree of close civilian cooperation , affecting a country ’s attractiveness or soft power as well . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others as well . here american need the support of europeans , and it makes no sense to call this world uni-polar , either .
translation : an orderly resolution of the global megabanks is an illusion . and , because such large financial institutions are by whatever meaningful definition is “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than they might otherwise be . as long as the us allows any cross-border banks at or near their current levels , our political leaders will not be able to tolerate failure . this form of government support amounts to a massive implicit subsidy to the big banks . worse still , they have both the inherent motive and the opportunity to grow even bigger .
and , by raising the costs of extracting fossil-fuel subsidies , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of a sector with no room in a climate-safe world . fortunately , the world will not need to wait for moral suasion to carry the day . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already confronting intensifying legal pressures . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint to poland ’s human-rights commission , calling for an inquiry into large fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility for causing climate change . the dutch group urgenda – and almost 900 co-prosecutors – have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to accept tougher climate policies .
a few years ago , for example , chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system that links his three factories and three subcontractors in asia to his worldwide customer network . he chose to dissource this surgery to federal express , using a sophisticated , on-line scheme for managing the world ’s production and sales . as a result , national semiconductor saw his delivery cycle to buyers cut from four weeks to at a time , distributing costs cuts from 2.9 % to 1.2 % of retail sales . several more steps are needed to support the massive increase in internet usage in these other locales : * liberalization of telecoms , including the entry of new private service providers , has been critical to lower costs and spread benefits .
accordingly , the possibility of so-called “ helicopter money ” is becoming increasingly discussed . but the debate about it is riddled with konsions . if governments run larger fiscal deficits , and finance this not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly outstrip growth , producing some mix of the often elevated inflation and higher real output . so long as governments run larger fiscal deficits , and financing this not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , producing some mix of increased inflation and higher real output . it argues both simultaneously ( sometimes the same people ) that monetary financing will not stimulate demand , because people will fear a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago this month , it suddenly became utterly unclear about who had to pay what to whom , who could n’t pay their debts , and who would go down next . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of record-low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s revolved into yet another great depression . in hindsight , the complacency in the run-up to the crisis was clearly unconsciences . and yet little has changed in the aftermath of the crisis . the result was that the interbank lending markets were froze , wall street panicked , and enterprises went under , not only in the united states but around the world .
the coalition partners disagree about how urgent it is to sort this issue . to some , that is a cause for ambivalence . should the spd , which will vote on a coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but far out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . but they have accepted that within a year a commission will offer distinct opportunities and role models to protect the german parliament ’s rights , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country will be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . for some , that is a cause for ambivalence .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who object to technologies on “ moral ” soil . indeed , each new gm crop variety has to meet fully rigorous health , ecological and efficacy standards . indeed , every new gm crop variety has to meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards .
regulators ’ call to the imf for voluntary action will not amount to much if it is merely a call to the derivatives industry to treat its own financial interests in the process . perhaps regulators will find that they need to require that the regulated have the desired treaty provisions . that solution will be incomplete yet , because not all derivatives traders regulate financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the treaty and the requirement . if coverage is not complete , one can expect the now-regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . moreover , regulators may well need to turn back to the bankruptcy laws to correct the problem .
but even that was not enough to britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , make it even harsher than the sedition law in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who had used “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government ” can be charged with sedition and potentially condemned to life imprisonment . sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among his own prominent victims , though far short of its last . in other words , no act of free speech to the indians , either . the british came to terms in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ sedition law ” was proportionate to a peoples ruled by an american nationality and faith might be insufficient or , in some respects , unsuited to a country under foreign rule .
seoul – china , already the world ’s largest exporter , manufactures and the international-reserve-asset holder , it is poised to outlast the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured , according to purchasing power parity ) this year . after decades of working actively with respect to international economic institutions – including the g20 , the us international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to forge a new world order . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) . now it is using its growing clout to reform global economic governance . indeed , the country ’s days in the aftermath of deng xiaoping ’s injunction to embrace hiding brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone .
new free-trade agreements are giving european economies access to major markets worldwide . achieving a global climate deal promises not only to preserve the environment , but also to buttress europe ’s role as the world ’s leader in sustainability . these are , through all reasonable standards , spectacular uk-guided achievements . progress on the single market has helped to boost competitiveness . and enlargement has strengthened europe ’s security substantially .
the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , proposed that america should work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its obligations on semiconductor ip , and by strengthening its export controls and the inward investment restrictions . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on china ’s behavior . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , some have already tightened security on flows of semiconductor ip to china , and on the acquisition of semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on china ’s behavior . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the jurisdiction of the us foreign investment committee ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by domestic companies through foreign entities ) to a wider range of investment – including china ’s venture capital and private-equity investment in america ’s startups – fits this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependence to far more efficient renewable-energy schemes . four decades ago , countries not only endured the opec embargo ’s immediate economic impact ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortfalls to spur innovation . a rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies to powering a u.s. economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 – without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . swift and determined action to turn buildings further energy-efficient , design automobiles , which require little or no fossil-fuel fuel , and scale up the share of renewables in electricity generation could ensure that a far hotter and less agreeable world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does not materialize .
on the same day that hamas launched three powerful , iranian-designed rockets from gaza in israel , ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed the targets , and israel succeeded in overseeing the third . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of civilian nuclear reactors in warzones . the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all of the most susceptible material from iraq after the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united nations invaded in 2003 ) . but what an international response , with any one , would have begun if the cache were highly enriched ?
moreover , the 9/11 surge in crude oil prices , which fueled fears of another negative growth shock , has since been resetting itself . indeed , while the dollar appreciation has taken some pressure from the non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it has put upward pressure on an open currency war on hold . for the same time , not all of its indicators are gloomy . the american economy reflects this dichotomized . labor markets remain mostly sound , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies .
in the personal-computing business – which moved from bulky ii to a sleeping and clever iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) – steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . ( others became “ business ” leaders , only steve became someone known and admired by millions – including the romanian waiter at the british airways parlance that i sit now . ) i first met “ steve jobs back ” in 1979 , or 1980 , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum . he inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his produce and his personal charisma . for some reason , it was held at a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – what accounts for this recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . what accounts for this recent acceleration ? cambridge – america ’s record of real gdp growth of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , because it accounted for fully 3 % of gdp in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from the end of the great recession , from 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy grew by just 2.1 % per year , on average , on average .
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female ( or vice versa ) , among others . no breakthrough can be predicted with any accuracy the impact that the quota percentages they are currently have on the construction of effective quota legislation . but if these countries are replacing their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of women elected should , for all else , be equal , at around 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in some 20 % of trump ’s remaining female candidates ) in systems that currently lack effective quota legislation . building a 50 % quota ( he should be taken as part of a 50 % quota . )
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . for example , frustrated that the us congress had denied it all of the funding that it wanted for its phantasmagorical wall along its border with mexico , he simply plucked the money from funds allocated by the us congress for defence department . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump tried to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . moreover , trump has sought to steer the administration ’s contracts toward favored firms or away from those he dislikes , for example , amazon , whose co-founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . he has also flouted the recently enacted constitutional prohibition against accepting emoluments – the money or the personal benefits of the foreign governments doing business – sometimes of an extravagant proportion , at his various hotels and roaming clubs , and finding other ways to monetize the presidency .
argentina defaulted on its debts in 2001 . when debts become unsustainable , a few possible negotiating results have been found . sometimes creditors agree to swap old bonds for the new ones , with either less face value or lower interest payments . sometimes , debt-service payments are again rescheduled and perhaps stretched over an extended period , giving a debtor country time to regain the capacity to pay . few governments refuse to roll over each other ’s debts .
the response in turkey , where as many as 50 possible cases have reappeared in the eastern part of the country , is instructive . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and brazil , where a pandemic strain will likely originate – with considerable professionals , coordination , credit discipline , and infrastructure . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is notoriously cost-effective . ’ a strategy , however , can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . while tenured prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where flu pandemics are beginning , the probability of success approaches zero .
that has made china a key trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , besides placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it in dollar terms , but also in other major currencies , owing to its large trade surplus in recent decades . deng xiaoping ’s ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and , with it , the emergence of a very large and growing middle class . it remains the vitally important assembly center for the global supply chains of many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , to enable a lower price for consumers in the world . it helps to finance other countries with trade deficits and domestic investment ( with many of its recipients having large budget deficits , which cause national saving to fall below domestic investment ) .
indeed , history offers little guidance as to whether warring countries will avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the possible exception of the balkan conflicts of 1990 , wars were waged not against or within countries with nuclear reactors . in the case of the balkan wars , serbian military jets overflew slovenia 's krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early on the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to free up radioactive contents . nor ukrainians born after 1986 understood what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought through combat might look like . for ukraine 's government , the angst is real .
china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources . it has pursued a campaign to reclaim its old position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made starkly apparent that it will not readily give up its market share , let alone that it will . to this end , it has sustained a price war , fueled by a surge in production as a result of trump ’s goal of pushing out its weaker competitors . as soon as the doors to asia became wide , nonetheless , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter india and indonesia ’s downstream markets , two of the countries critical for the saudis ’ own strategy .
so what type of economics would really offer for this good life ? in fact , attaining , prospering , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . that is the type of economy that i hope that china will develop . history suggests that it would be one of the entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and that deploying their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( the imagined new things , develop new concepts in commercial products and methods , and sell them to potential ) . participants in such a good economy would range from that of society ’s grassroots to the most advantaged .
for those who dread the threat that automation represents to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for better jobs . yet , in fact , technological advances now devour the better job . as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to the surge in productivity , education , and health care , technology is already driving down the demand for skilled labor . ( though perhaps this is not automation right – the us supermarket has just shifted some of its items from shopping onto the customer . ) a wide array of jobs that we now think about as highly skilled , secure , and irreducibly humans may be the next casualties of technological change .
last november , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary . in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son were killed outside their home near budapest . in august , gunmen invaded the home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to death and injured her 13-year-old daughter . as a result , the home was burned down to the ground , set out in only a few days . in april , mohamed killers gunned down a roma factory as she walked into her job .
a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . ultimately , the evolutionary process of globalization is all too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrolled to rely on static actions like tariffs . the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . trump should protect individual workers , not individual jobs . with american workers already competing against us robots at home , and against low - and middle-income employees abroad , he will just generate more employment for robots .
iran ’s recent municipal elections were a humiliating outcome , both for ahmadinejad and for his supporters . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . nevertheless , hitler ’s ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s power over iran . he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is also the latter-day hitler , and is iran today the equivalent of germany in the 1930s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never in power , whereas iran was very well there .
but this requires a rich reservoir of thought , rather than a unified approach . this means that so long as european electorates insist on retaining their sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared liability will be a pipe dream . a second principle is the subsidiarity that holds that decision-makers are responsible for outcomes in their decision-making . this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside as having consequences for eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the last principle is congruity , ensuring that decision-makers remain accountable to prevailing outcomes in their decision-making .
george w. bush ’s economic policies have foundered on the extraordinarily reckless gamble reflected a political coalition of two major powers : super-and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding goal in joining the bush coalition : the tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the richest households . the bush team believed that they would ultimately counter-balance the tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government spending ; but they never explain this to the public . evangelicals have been brought , based on so-called family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that they provide locally and internationally . like these policies trump fails , global financial markets have negatively suffered , adding insecurity to the global economy , and creating little relief in sight because america is entering a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate .
in order to boost purchasing power and spur consumption , tax cuts at low – and medium-income households are essential . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act and miss the right opportunity to enact countermeasures that are why japan has still not recovered from its long years of stagnation . at the same time , public investment in infrastructure ( for example , the country ’s massive expansion of europe ’s railroad network ) will be needed , as will climate protection and environmental technology be protected . of course , eu member states should establish the concrete form that such economic-policy economic stabilization programs take for themselves . some large eu countries are on the precipice of recession .
africa ’s value as an investment partner is not news to europe . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities that are stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging , low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewable energy . spending by households and businesses , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual gdp growth .
a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is much taller than putin , who , at all rates , had accomplished only the rank of lieutenant colonel . despite his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive actions . an apparent potential threat to putin ’s power , the ivanov had passed over , and it has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” ” overseeing the environment and transportation . earlier this month , putin came back up , or , rather crowned in spectacular fashion , with medvedev foresworn in as his role as a pliant prime minister .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancies and a rising retirement ratio , to taxpayers . the problem will worsen in the years ahead as adverse demographic trends drive the fiscal burden of financing pension and health-care financing . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system of welfare financing creates a crisis when the fund is being depleted . here ’s how the american system operates : via legislation , a payroll tax is devoted entirely to retiree financing . although the possibilities at a time will be different from the choices facing other governments , policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other countries facing populist aging .
more recently , he has criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threat to seize his country ’s foreign assets because of his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed from someone who governs . ” indeed , while that scandals have rocked the us government , lula extreme was overwhelmingly reelected last year , with investors seeking to keep money in the stock market . lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows real compassion with the less affluent and with foreign investors , because he has always tempered his radicalism in order to accommodate an economic reality . one reason for this is that corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting the scandals , helping to demonstrate to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system has been stable enough to withstand open criticism .
true , morales resigned when the military told him by the military and , after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed . the two organization of american states ’ electoral observation missions that he had invited , as well as whose terms had been accepted , then refused to certify the result . the constitutional court , authorizing morales to run , considered a legal succession ; a timely election was promised ; and the military has failed to exercise power . the bolivian military ’s arrest of no one .
this is the type of free , democratic spirit that operates outside the un convention , which elections determine the governing parties . it is not always consistent or rational , but it is neither always consistent nor rational . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it moves very quickly in precipitating crises ; and it moves very quickly in precipitating a crisis . and they resent – to the point of mobilizing at the streets , any hints that a clique at the top is barring its journey .
this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism as long as they had obeyed a few simple international rules . the current crisis shows just how far we came from that model . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few safety valves in place , it signaled an inherent explosive mix . indeed , countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for a socially sensitive sector ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . through all of this , financial globalization played havoc in the old system .
you and i may depend on one another ; but if i depend on you less than you do , my degree of bargaining power is increased . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . for decades , american and saudi arabia had a balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as the swing producer of oil and depended on the us for ultimate military security . so , even with america lacking other interests in the middle east , such as israel or the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , a balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to be free of american military expenditures – something some experts estimate run by the us to $ 50 billion a year – to protect the region ’s oil routes . power arises from asymmetries in interdependence .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether “ “ “ hungarians and the poles ” want precisely those things like the german and the french . in each case , eu voters have said nothing about – outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for their domestic problems . indeed , europe ’s leaders ’ parochialism are a major reason for the eu ’s inability to retain broad-based public support . the lack of a historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose that eu citizens are needed to make eu citizens feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of its different national identities . at the supra-national level , the lack of political will resulted from the craven use of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands issued an eu-ukraine association vote last april , and the brexit referendum nearly three months later .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory in the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the oriented postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model was based politically on building consensus and economically on keynesian demand management . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefits , with high levels of employment and significant wage growth . today , the equivalent of collapse has been the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which a party that styled itself as the “ new labour ” embraced a powerful role for markets – especially deregulated financial markets .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestine ’s religious landmarks are attracting a growing number of religious tourists from around the world every year . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t exacts war everywhere .
embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; televised news programs have shown hours of footage of burning cars . mayors across europe have also reacted more moderately , feeling and revealing solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have been trying to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion that they know arguably has spread . as french cities have burned down , other countries have found it extremely severe in judging france . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , to the extent that they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and disenfranchised young .
all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as that of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it did last year . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at an annual rate of more than global supply , prices will rise . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain , in order to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty – thereby preventing a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral prices . to be sure , use intensity has plummeted for some commodities , such as gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen in value since 2000 , or as is the case for copper and oil declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high levels . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is projected to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms .
across the rest of the economy , a similar situation prevails . severe shortages of some life-saving drugs in venezuela are a result of the government ’s inability to pay a $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . in the automobile sector , bankruptcies exceeded $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transport services , owing to under-saving parts . payment arrears on food imports amounts to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a substantial shortfall of staple goods . earlier this year , he was diagnosed , and had to launch a social-media campaign to locate the drugs his treatment required .
of course , turkey has been less destabilized than its arab rivals and its partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . likewise , while egypt is amid a messy revolution , and must give nationalist change to internal change , it is also intent on rolling back a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) , and in the region as a whole . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy , with no one behind it . will it , too , have to get its bomb ? the “ middle east empire ” will no longer remain a sleepgiant .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the idea that the us constitution is an aspirations declaration , rather than a set of enforceable legal prerogatives . these state-controlled benefits have little in common with the justice that their socialist promoters are supposedly eager , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption . the desire to restrict or protect certain forms of free-market human activity may be understandable , particularly in a country like poland , where the free market remains an unknowable animal . but in a situation in which many social life fields – such as education , health , and social services -- are needed quickly and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its work provides the sole plausible avenue for change . state-owned health-insurance companies , state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they run counter to the idea of policy reform as well .
the movies of bollywood , which carries its glitzy entertainment far outside the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer yet another example . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar every month , to watch a bollywood film , but does n’t understand the hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles ; instead , it can still catch movies and understand the story , and people like her look at india with the stars in their eyes . so do the work of the indian fashion designers , now striding across the world ’s runways . india ’s arts , classical music , and dance have , of course , had the same effect . india ’s diplomat in damascus some years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as prime minister hafez al-assad ’s were of the bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since it gained its independence , arrives in an attempt , on both the united states and india . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an awkward national security gap and the us economy , its focus on its meetings with india . bilateral economic , trade , and currency mismatches may not be as bitter as they are between the american people and china ; on the contrary , they are thorny , and a lack of resolution makes them more intractable . for india , the issues on obama ’s visit agenda are immense and complex , and the possibilities for resolving it are extraordinarily limited . those concerning security in afghanistan and pakistan are just as treacherous .
as a result of social media , the resulting discontent now has spreads more rapidly than ever before , leading to destructive politics . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have a winner-take-all network effect , whereby the hubs seize access to knowledge and power leaving unprivileged groups , classrooms , industries , and regions struggling to compete . at the same time , the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability to other parts of the world . according to the united nations high commission on refugees , an estimated 65 million new refugees were saved last year , compared to just 1.6 million in the 1960 ’s . this may invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorates in a lose-lose scenario , such as that already manifest itself in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments turn or fail .
but such a process is also illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 . that constitution marked the country ’s departure from dictatorship to democracy , and lays the framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ rooted in the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” ” with sovereignty belonging “ to the spanish people . ” many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in 2014 . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible .
geneva – the world needs the united states , first and foremost , to stop looking backwards . the flawed premise that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were merely temporary has underpinned policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries , while failing to tackle crucial issues like high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is over , with a “ post-post-crisis world ” upon us . the flawed premise that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were merely temporary has underpinned policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries , while failing to tackle crucial issues like high unemployment and rising inequality . it is time for a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within the global economy in today and tomorrow .
obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is a result of many factors and fallacies . these have been emphasized in an “ open letter to obama , ” which i organized and released , more than the signatures of almost 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . indeed , it is notable that while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 , at least referred to doha , his address in january 2011 did not . obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . america ’s president is captive to the country ’s labor unions , who are buying the false narrative that trade with poor countries is widening ranks in the u.s. by driving down pay .
if that happens , the chance of an actual american default would be far greater than it is today . these new worries are raising the alarm bells in china . indeed , some people are even predicting a double-dip recession in china . but this is an easy task at all , particularly in the short term . in effect , diversification of dollar assets is the advice of the day .
berkeley – worldwide , investors are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring about environmental and social benefits , in addition to market-return rates . last year , one out of every 6 dollars of asset under professional management in the united states alone amounted to a combined $ 6.6 trillion – enough to boost sustainable investment , mainly public equities . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : this will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making – a bold move that could transform capital markets . if this trend continues , with environmental or societal goals enhancing an investment ’s value , it will reinforce a commitment to achieving sustainability , which is already gaining momentum among companies worldwide . some 1,260 companies , managing $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are united nations signatories of “ responsible investment ” – which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and therefore the long-term health and stability of companies and markets – as critical of investors .
in a sense , that might seem like a good thing , too . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has arrived to a tipping point ; europe is on the brink ; and a fresh set of powers is emerging , channeling its own unique worldviews in global affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing , too . more varied perspectives might enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but this multipolar dynamic also breeds instability .
in britain and some european countries , farm welfare states became politically salient , with pressure on their parliamentary deputies . to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation and developed its new , less vicious method of keeping hens . at the same time , some supermarket chains have ceased performing eggs from battery hens . a ban on battery cages in the eu was ultimately enacted in 1999 , but , in order to ensure that producers would have enough time to phase out the facilities in which they invested , its implementation slowed until january 1 , 2012 . the european union set up a scientific-welfare council to investigate animal-welfare issues on farm animals , and the panel recommended banning the battery cage along some other forms of close confinement of coca and calves .
finally , equal accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles . early school-leavers , for example , might be endowed with points for later use in professional training . that may sound utopian ; in some ways , it is . more broadly , the eu could help people only when their social risk materialize ; public policy might support individuals throughout their work , by adopting a more effective approach that fits with peoples ’ needs better than cosely tailored designs . but at a time when each digital service is becoming more and more personalized , why should social policies remain confined to the twentieth-century philosophy and solutions ?
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure at the time . it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was regarded as taboo . but it is corruption that poses the world ’s single biggest barrier to growth and development in a number of countries , particularly because it diverts resources from the poor . numerous cabinet secretary chuck grassley and ngo ’s have both experienced blunt criticism as much as his effusive praise . the world bank has insisted that it sees corruption as a form of cancer , and that it has made it synonymous with fighting poverty .
china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power concerned about the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is the status quo power with respect to the un system and steadfastly opposes enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global powers have been reduced to the economic empire , with the rigid core of international relations , peace , and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of any number of countries . the formation of the g20 , for example , has been the go-it-alone improvisation designed to defer genuine financial reform .
indeed , intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of the equality of opportunity . it can stem from a period of gridlock , conflict , or poor political choices . whether it does depend substantially on whether high-profile instruments to promote equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are highly accessible . evidence supports the view that systematic exclusion of sub-groups on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly damaging to this respect . rising inequalities of outcomes need not fuel a decline in intergenerational mobility .
of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several specifically target clean tech startups . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever before , creating the first truly global crowd-funding marketplace that offers equity in funded firms . if used wisely , such platforms could pick up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a more blue-collar economy . the proliferation of information technology and social-media platforms means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a massive pool of finance , not to mention contacts and expertise – from small investors . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption , paying a fee , sharing , and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful momentum to such efforts .
in 1971 , fighting broke out , when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , proclaimed its independence from pakistan . in the wake of that conflict , refugees poured across the border into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating the conditions that have inevitably given rise to cholera outbreaks . as many people have grown dying , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis took some of his chance in desperately poor situations . bangladesh knows that wartime cholera all too well . a standard of care-giving at that time was the poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that oral rehydration solutions can not be administered widely .
madrid – on april 22 , 2017 , the international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now includes 195 signatories . in 2016 , the hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the single most important step forward for date when it comes to the global fight against climate change . but its first anniversary has dimmed us president donald trump ’s asia energy policies . the paris accord ’s overarching goal is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today ’s ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities combined with the crisis of global responsibility . could the fact that humanity thinks only within the confines of what lies within its conception of vision , incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not merely the product of the loss of metaphysical certitude , of the loss of god ? even more succinctly , it can not today ’s ’s ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole and for its future is the logical result of the world ’s modern concepts as governed by an scientifically identifiable entity , god-knows – what purpose – that is , a concept that does not question or seeks the gravest meaning of existence and renounces any and all metaphysics ? is there any feeling in seeking to turn the humanity ’s mind into the heavens , when such a turn would merely aggravate conflict on earth among adherents of our different forities ? but how to recover in the human mind is a shared attitude toward what keeps us if people across the globe have a different image of who is above , when humans everywhere feel the must of emphasizing their “ otherness ” ?
at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , lags or has stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end users is a critical one , as are the extension of affordable and reliable waste-management services to everyone who needs them . those are the choices that drivethe world needs . it has thrown down the gauntlet to the major economies of the world : tell us that as you phase out your coal , end up damaging fossil-fuel subsidies , and shifting taxation from incomes to pollution . a major reform of how this transition is financed also needs a profound change .
new haven – central bankers around the world have so far failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , out of a total of 47 central banks , 47 central banks found that they will publish their financial stability reports ( fsrs ) , “ virtually every ” provided a “ positive global assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent reports . and yet , while these central banks failed the us even before the crisis , they should yet play the leading role in preventing another crisis in the next few years . that is very close to the conclusion , perhaps counterintuitive , that the squam lake group [ s ] //squamlakegroup.kampalais , a think tank of 15 academic financial economists to which i belong , reached in our just-published paper , fixing the financial system . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but , rather , to ensure the long-run stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and they are the reasons for central bankers to fill that role .
the sad reality , in making that choice , is that the us president opted to turn away from the classical american vision engrained on the pedestal of a statue of liberty in new york city , expressed in emma lazarus ’s ’s ’s poem , which begins , “ giving me your own tired , your poor , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers , irremediably strengthened america . yet , apparently , convinced that daca recipients accepted jobs from their citizens , concluded that the same heartlands and sympathy were needed “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” while vowing during the late-daca us presidential campaign , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , saying that he would face a “ “ very , very hard ” very hard ” ” ” choice . and even after the repeal , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ”
they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated more effectively and to maximize government revenues . likewise , amlo ’s decision to lower the wages of public employees has already led many highly high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . attempting to fulfill these valuable tasks , while paying below-market salaries is penny wise but pound folly . attempting to meet these valuable tasks , while paying below-market salaries is penny wise but pound folly . amlo ’s decision to lower the wages of public employees has already led many high-level officials to seek employment elsewhere .
and the international energy agency reports that rising global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.5-fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists have identified as the threshold beyond which one of the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . clearly , the third industrial revolution requires us help . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups should be established in three key areas . a first-past-the-post coalition comprising a group of committed governments would seek to drive down the cost of renewable energy , at least for a decade . moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record-high peak in 2012 .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat back . first organized in sydney , australia , at 2007 by the grassroots chapter at the global wildlife fund , its popular and level of attendance ( both individual and official ) that generates exploded in recent years , to the point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has not touched upon . at a stroke of 8:30 pearl on saturday , march 27 , nearly one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated the desire to do something about global warming by switching off its lights for the hour . in a show of official solidarity , the lights have also gone out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the us opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york state-owned empire building , london ’s great ben eiffel tower , and skylines in both hong kong and las vegas . what ever else may be , earth hour is surely one of the greatest successful publicity stunts ever dreamed .
broadly , britons have been saying that a loose confederation of nation-states working on trade is as much european as the uk requires . yet britain has joined the european community , not the only free-trade area that cameron now seems keen to do . indeed , in his recent speech , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice ( ecj ) . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished , and it was evident even in cameron ’s ’s ’s speech . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas was accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others had done so .
research for the global commission on the economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s ’s ’s top coal-consuming economy – in 2010 . coal-fired power is also the primary emitter of carbon dioxide , a major greenhouse-gas responsible for climate change , causing an estimated 150,000 premature deaths annually and posing pervasive risk this century and beyond . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related fatalities occur in low - and middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population . to be sure , the us coal industry has helped billions to escape poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned nearly 700 % annual per capita income growth since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in middle-income countries that burn more co2 .
in politics this can be dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions , no matter how weighty , on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . indeed , the emergence of democracy nowadays has embraced a pop culture of fast getting fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating party is forgotten tomorrow , with always more waiting in the wings . the call for more referenda is on the part of “ snapshots ” as they are for the most part snapshot . to call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . but at times , that desire looks overwhelming in the more post-modern democracies everywhere .
unless i know a person ’s name , i might not even know what a company it is about . unfortunately , i obtain lots of messages headlined , “ updates on . ” or , “ the investment proposal for your consideration ” is doing , ” or , “ it does , ” serve as a benchmark ? perhaps , she might , say , say “ message for president barack obama ” if she shares an open letter , but otherwise … . the best topic says only what the message there is and signals a desired response : an invitation to speak in paris on july 14 .
economists worldwide have taken note of the advent of raghuram rajan as chief economist at the finance ministry . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant political writer and a former chief economist for the imf . india ’s octogenarian , prime minister , manmohan singh , recently stirred up a desperate need for a renewed upward movement . and yet , at present , the change may be merely turning things around . so far , however , it remains far from apparent that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda .
at the same time , we must abandon popper ’s tacit premise that political discourse aims to gain a greater understanding of reality and to reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . what we must do is introduce new ground rules of political discourse in the realm of political discourse . above all , the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong allegiance to the pursuit of truth also demands implementation . these can not be identi­cal toward a science-based method , but they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria upon which to make one ’s political views to be judged . rather , politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only when the public cares most about the truth and the punishes politicians when it seizes them in deliber­­ – that is , what we must do ?
new delhi – why are indian athletes performing so badly ? the explanations range from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians are left with genes , build , stamina , a climate , all of them . we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is an expression not only of its , your fabulous legs against tibet , but of what you can do against your trainer , their running shoe , its ergodynamic costume , its titanium costume , its titanium archer . but those rationales will not do it : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in the night . there are structural and infrastructural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , gear , finance .
soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that the iraqi weapons of mass destruction had weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any inconclusive evidence . likewise , as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative us project for a new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . not coincidentally , bush ’s ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the icj ’s basic declaration of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld ’s chief of defense . and , following its victory in 2000 , bush declared that iraq is one of his top two security priorities . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that “ we are unaware with any precision how badly we do not know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
r evolutions gave birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . for the most part , the greatest gap from 2009 to 1979 was shaped by the revolution itself . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of a narrow ruling stratum and a much broader endorsing group that had its vested charge on administration and political mobilization . the clerical elite gradually lost power to shiite security groups from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
but we should not exaggerate the importance of doing so . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
too frequently , biased assumptions guide policymaking . research shows that many girls worldwide – and particularly those in the global south – are simply unready for menarche ; education can help . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss out on campus , owing to lack of access to clean sanitary products . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed out on a school , because their lack of access to clean sanitary products is absent . finally , what is needed is cutting-edge solutions that rely on facts .
if greece agrees with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . economists have long understood that , far from being a trusted lender of last resort , greek banks are vulnerable to a self-fulfilling risk crisis . that lender of last resort can be monetary or fiscal ; and , in greece , both kinds are in doubt . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . under these circumstances , it would be all the more surprising before depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds out of greek banks .
on one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition on the use of force by states to seize territory from their neighbors . in the short run , by contrast , the declining countries often assume greater risks , and thus more dangerous , – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . russia , almost completely dependent on its energy resources , is a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . this has created a political dilemma in itself . president vladimir putin ’s ’s ’s ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , and his cyber attacks on america and others , however intended to make russia seem great again , merely worsen ukraine ’s long-term prospects .
the continued poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all the parties involved , as well as europe most of all . preventing the eu from collapsing apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . governments in athens , brussels , no longer can live with greece as a failed state and economy . greece needs both money and reform – fast and within its borders and the eu . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout , or with europe ’s plunge into disaster .
his unilateralist approach is likely to force america to playing catch-up with a “ china ” left of virtually unhinged efforts to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vitally important , economically , and politically , to its own strategic interests . trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities for china to temper its role as an investment provider and everything of infrastructure and aid to its host countries eager to flourish . indeed , china ’s ’s ’s ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries around the world , particularly developing and emerging economies . as trump wins with isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill in just the same vacuum . his unilateralist approach is likely to force america into a game changer with the us that china has left almost unhinged in its ongoing effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vital , economically , and politically , to its own strategic interests .
austin , who live in a city turned you into a cannibal . urbanites become the type of people ready to make sacrifices for one another in order to satisfy their appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who views cities as providers of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that it “ would ” rather see men grazing on meadow grass rather than being devoured by one another in cities . austin , who live in a city , turns you into a cannibal .
the question at the beginning of 2019 is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario play out . looking ahead to its 2021-2030 period , a annual growth rate of 8 % ( compared to the 10 % rate of the previous ten years ) and a gradual increase in consumption to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion a year by 2030 . in that scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in the dollar . if apple ’s recent guidance points to an across-the-board , open-ended drop in chinese consumption will be able to serve as the global economy ’s sole engine of so far for the next decade ? if not , could any other country will fill that role , even partly ?
but , unlike many emerging-market economies , china is not struggling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which make it a net lender to the rest of the world . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth misaligned – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors , who have contributed to speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequalities . with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing largely to its short-term borrowing and long-term lending . but china has not avoided a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-fueled to-gdp ratio doubled over the last decade , from roughly 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . at least four systemically problematic mismatches ” lay at the root of the past global financial crises , and three plague china today .
the events of the last 15 months , beginning with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by the current violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan , confront the world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and promises and advances in clean energy . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed both to help capture the economic , environmental , and security benefits of renewable energy . in recent decades , europe has been a driving force behind energy-modernization in asia . reaffirming its commitment to accelerate decarbonization of its energy system , together with its creative policies in promoting this goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . with a goal of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity up to end in 2020 , investment in india could quickly grow .
for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , intellectual-property protections , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 . human ingenuity appears to know no bounds when it comes to dreaming about protectionist barriers . in october 1982 , the french government demanded that all sudanese unhcr imports enter the country through its poitiers , hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port . even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade may have been hampered by subsidies , taxation , anti-dumping legislation , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , america could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , to defeat populism requires coming to grips with a crucial reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from a government that loses power . in fact , it is entirely possible for irresponsible populists now to strengthen their chances of being re-elected in earnest by making wilder and more impossible promises – and by causing even greater economic damage . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not necessarily well-being with that .
but these efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency , thereby spurring a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 – as well as recessions in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . these trends had boosted the public-debt burden , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity sourced via private banking activities unconnected to transactions in the real economy . two other destabilizing developments emerged over the last quarter of the twentieth century : a powerful disincentive to prop up demand and a shift towards financing of public debt through leveraged private institutions of market prices under the guise of battle inflation . the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments that protect against price volatility , turning private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gained access to speculative markets . as a result , global liquidity amounted to more than twice its value in world gdp by 2006 .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit review program that identifies 40 major projects for prioritization , reformed overall planning processes , and then has formed the cabinet subcommittee to ensure faster delivery of projects , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by up to 15 % . additional saving opportunities – to meet the paris stock of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed their approval times by an estimated 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates all of the proposed public projects using norway , its approach , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional saving opportunities – to meet the paris club of $ 400 billion annually , lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with players like employers , industries , and workers ) , levels of biology , space travelers , and many more , and encompassing representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are linked . and that means a better job , more meaningful responses as we search for it . for one thing , you can soon do . so , they have complicated relationships for other things , and by representing that information using verbs , for example , “ the company that google acquired ” vs. “ a company that google competes with ” – we can represent the world more accurately . the vast majority of things do n’t in isolation anymore exist in isolation .
last year , european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call to even voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign up for gender balance goals by 40 % female board membership . the america ’s forte foundation has now followed suit in italy , with its own “ board-ready ” list of women . the european union now considers legislation to favor forcing corporate boards in order to maintain a certain proportion of women in the eu , up from about 60 % . this suggested mandate came in the wake of frustration .
cambridge – at the beginning of class each fall , i tease my students with the following issue : is it preferable to being poor , in a rich country , or the rich , in a poor country ? in fact , the question typically attracts significant – and inconclusive – debate . but we can devise a more structured , limited version of that question , for which there is a definitive answer . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
she saved , because she wanted enough money to repay ; but she could not pay enough money for retirement . indeed , it may well be in america ’s process of adding retirement crises to the us unemployment problem . alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her retirement fund ) to purchase risky long-maturity bonds . given the appalling returns on saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low us interest rates may force her to foot the bill further . given that such bonds are already being aggressively priced , such a move might thus set her back to collapse as us interest rates eventually rise .
after all , the smooth transitions of power need not be taken for granted . indeed , it defeated the incumbent who truly wanted to retain its job , and who may reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders , who were defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result . certainly , the zambians ’ achievement may not be able to rival the intervention in libya or the arab spring drama . and yet , what happened in zambia does have to be related to these developments – and thus relevant everywhere . what made zambia ’s election so important is that the challenger won .
yet , since then , russia has become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , and kurds , as well as israel and iran . as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole client state in the middle east . russia ’s ’s diplomatic vulnerabilities have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power won the civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , demonstrating how the country ’s strategic deployment of unrestrained military power – witness the utter devastation of aleppo – may be a game-changer . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to maintain a dialogue with different sides , it will do nothing to develop a new regional order .
investors were then willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country , with 8 sovereign defaults in just the past two centuries . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign . but , once that inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in once again , closing the external-financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion in loan relief program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . once again , however , this external financing problem was not a temporary occurrence ; instead , argentinian voters soon rallied on the reform that the imf demanded . with the external debts trimmed through rescheduling , foreign capital flowed in step with the day .
proponents of helicopter money , explicitly crediting citizens with central-bank money or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly arguing that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who spend it . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , heading off the japanese-style deflationary possibility . in addition , an alternative approach to stimulating private-sector demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has debated . this might take the airsea off of incipient asset bubbles , which may be creating and damaging pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield that they are forced to satisfy their retirement and pension liabilities . indeed , encouraging demand might give the central bank the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historic norms .
that was followed by two visits he made to haiti over the last 18 months , as well as to the donor ’s ’s ’s ’s conference , which he sponsored in april , that sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a cessation of warfare , demanding that israel reopen gaza ’s border through relief aid . it also visited the un compound at gaza in order to convey the un ’s grave concern over its bombing . it promptly defended the palestinians ’ right of statehood , but it also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , although capital-market volatility rose worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . moreover , the advanced economies ’ spillover effects from us monetary policies extend beyond financial shocks . boom-bust financial cycles are fueled largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but are key determinants of emerging-market business cycles . in the last few years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy ’s – have undertaken massive external adjustment , while germany and the netherlands have maintained their large surpluses . moreover , emerging economies ’ spillover effects on monetary policies extend further beyond financial shocks .
but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will need to answer a vexing question that they have failed for more than six decades to confront : what is egypt ? first , the unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s army and the unlikelihood of splintered in its leadership makes any widespread violence untenable , particularly given the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s , a substantially weakened jihadist group ’ operational assets in the country ’s operational assets . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now engage in passions , tongues , and feel a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt to enter into domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite egypt ’s significant demographic and economic transformations during the last four decades , egyptian society still maintains its place of agrarian character that favors conciliation and compromise . in a country with more than 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any of its strategic convictions can afford a prolonged impasse .
a factor contributing to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed a clash between east and west away from one that emphasized its economic systems . a factor that contributed to their demise was a reflexive embrace of thinking that transformed a clash between east and west away from one that emphasized eu economic systems . but the past decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by the forces of ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and by the genocide in rwanda , and , during the current decade , the tide looked as if the rights cause were reversing . powerful states like china and russia are not restricted to authoritarian rule at home , but are fostering those in other countries engaged in similar practices . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela .
for both individual participants ’ longer-term health and the global system , such relationships must function effectively , based on a cooperative approach that is perceived as credible . if not , they risk stemming from lower levels of growth and welfare . this is one reason why the current confrontation between the us and china has raised fears of serious harm , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and wider “ trade war . ” supply chains now may hold as many important international links as homegrown ones , and a substantial share of domestic demand is met by products partly or wholly manufactured abroad . as technological innovations further reduce entry barriers for both producers and consumers , liberalizing these linkages becomes even easier , reinforcing what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-country relationships and dependencies .
once it is out in the cold , it will have to decide which the economic bloc to align , and then accept that the bloc ’s rules will be negotiated . if britain wants to do business with others , it will have to agree to common rules . simply put , the question is whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual-property ( ip ) and technology transfers over those of the west , or europe ’s food and agricultural standards over those of the us . if britain insists on pursuing the purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . this is not to say about sovereignty , or the satrapy , or about the provision of science and technology .
in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among major economies , federal taxation reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one important cause of a sluggish economic recovery . the gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to escape the need for extra bailouts . but sluggish growth implies fewer tax revenues and stronger demands for disbursement of hardship , placing downward pressure on government budgets . in europe , structural reforms target higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would endorse the attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate declaration ( which was undeniably agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about the exclusion of west germany ’s communists from the debate . thadden himself nonetheless avoided any provision of any direct response , suggesting that he would not fight back alongside his sister . nonetheless , dahrendorf was steadfast that the npd ’s fate should decide voters , rather than the courts , which proclaimed the communist party was illicit . bauer then interjected himself from thadden ’s sister .
liquidity remains restrained in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that includes an out-of-touch regulatory regime . though finance for public infrastructure finance did return to its 2008 level around the world , little of it is funneled to new projects . moreover , to overcome the barriers to investment , we propose the creation of an asset class that we call the “ buy-and-hold of equity ” ( boche ) . that asset class would sit between traditional equity and government debt , with investors able to hold one over the next 15 years or longer . most funds have targeted current infrastructure – investments that are considered relatively safe , because they entail little or no building risk , and have proved their potential to generate steady monetary revenues .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 billion loan , pledged freer elections in december 2010 , only to burn that bridge to a brutal crackdown , when faced with an adverse electoral outcome and the biggest popular protest that his regime has ever seen . now , russia has taken a harder line , demanding a high price for loans that are , at any rate , inadequate to rescue the regime . but , following its recent 64 % devaluation of the currency , the clock appears to be running out on its prolonged misrule . lukashenko obliged belarus to remove russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to pounce , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy out of the collapsing .
in its current struggles with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means by maintaining an old thought check . but liu ’s jailing of human rights also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s disregard for human rights is spilling over to the rest of world alongside the masses of chinese goods . indeed , it has become increasingly evident that china has opened its economy solely to keep the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , rather than scolded and aggravating the lives of ordinary chinese . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s disregard for human rights is shifting to the rest of world alongside the masses of chinese goods . the tremendous progress of china ’s economy over the last 30 years is something all chinese celebrate .
at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted that impending reforms would be implemented with surprising speed . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he noted that “ strengthening the party ’s ’s ’s ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” in view of these mounting concerns , implementing risks is now being submitted in a different light . such views do not emerge from thin air . liu , a deputy tactician , appears to have underscoring the links between leadership power and the pace of reform .
the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves urgency among government leaders as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . indeed , roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority . a broad socioeconomic mismatch exists between europe ’s majority population and the roma , or “ gypsies ” , many of whom live in extreme poverty . left unchanged , this persistent poverty threatens to turn to a permanent drag on european prosperity , a tragedy for the roma and non-roma alike . a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries , which are home to roma minorities .
it does not have to be this way . on the political front , a key lesson here is that it is up to a government to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers that can address internal security issues . but where its actions are insufficient is both the right and the responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . in order to help find solutions , we have pursued a messy state ( political , economic , sociocultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and its future prospects .
madrid – the european parliament elections this month are up less than four months away , and more than twice that . and that could mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of europe ’s disintegration . in particular , it needs an agenda of thinking on research and development , education and social inclusion , which could appeal to large segments of the population in every member country . pro-european forces need a campaign for a coordinated attempt to counter the eu ’s cyclical slowdown , and – most important – for a cohesive , aggressive policy to cope with europe ’s longer-term structural challenges . should they fail , the prospect of a populist parliament becoming a reality .
when asked whether america was prepared to be the world ’s second-largest economy , it was reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility that america would become “ number two ” sums up to its career suicide to an american politician . elected officials everywhere need to adjust , to varying degrees , to self-fulfilling the expectation of those who set them in office . intellectuals , by contrast , have a special obligation to think that the unthinkable and to speak an ineffness . they are supposed to weigh every possibility , even disagreeable ones , with preparing populations for the sake of prospective development .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire sectors at a breathtaking pace , has famously called the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week at davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume more . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with attention to three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important for the economy ’s success , and mexico is no exception .
for example , paypal tax cuts – which would allow small shopkeepers and entrepreneurs to scale up , innovate , and become more competitive , choking off job creation and economic growth – might require lowering the rents . likewise , italy ’s ’s real-estate tax amount to roughly 2 % of its total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – with the government planning to slash it further . in fact , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains generated by government bonds , with entrepreneurs risking their own capital to launch new firms must pay roughly 50 % of their startup costs in taxation . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , with the unskilled workers paying an additional 23 % in their meager incomes .
kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public backing , and that the ecj will most likely be unable to act on time . current polls show that the pis ’s popular popularity has risen to around 40 % , more than twice that of its previous ruling party , a civic platform . and though thousands – perhaps the tens of thousands – of polish protesters have rallied ahead of the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people have voted for pis in the 2015 elections . this suggests that , while poles might not agree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are keen not to risk much for free courts – or for liberal-democratic principles generally . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that “ the european commission wo n’t fraces poland ’s will on reforming the reforms , … if we do n’t reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little more than negated because sooner or later they negate the courts that the us has now .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and so on , as if the three musketeers interviewed the oral historian . the central interest lies not so much in narrative chapters that cover the same ground in their former books as part of their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they managed to build consensus on a fairly radical agenda . three proposals , in particular , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . there is also some instant praise for the two presidents they worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and reprise of their frustrations with unseeing the world their way and curtailing solutions , like sheila corpse from the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and separate pesky members of congress .
likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom believe trump is hubris , with only 50 % still believing that the us and the eu now have a special relationship that they are in office . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom believe trump is hubris , with only 50 % remaining convinced that the us and the united kingdom have some special relationship now that they are in office . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % view america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) led both by populist right-wing governments . the sentiment toward trump seems even more unfavorable in western europe .
conventional wisdom has always held that the state with the greatest military prevails , but in the information age it may turn out to be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story that wins . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama showed that “ the us powers grows through its uneasiness ; our security supplement from the justness of our cause , the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and self-restraint . ” in the sixteenth-century europe that control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from free trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy . soon thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton declared that , “ america can not resolve the most urgent problems on our own ; the world can not be solved without america . ” today , it is far from clear how measured the balance of power , much less how to develop successful strategies of survival .
the public consensus endorsing difficult reform in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters are capable of understanding and accepting the tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble has sparked controversy , when , arguably , , drawing inspiration from that experience , trump asserted that “ france ” would be happy if somebody could force the parliament ” to reform . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably produces the kind of corruption and inefficiencies – the problems with which china now wrestling . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that enable them to establish policies that are sustainable in the long term while safeguarding the democratic process itself .
he had to stay in nebraska , and help my grandfather rescues the family farm from the banks , which already had repossessed one-third of the land . that he turned to the university of nebraska , who had won his undergraduate degree , and had acquired the hybrid corn and other upgraded seeds that the university was developing . he then backtracked on the inputs and weather patterns , which rarely happened at that time . the most important change that my father made was in his mindset : he came to think about the farm not as a english-language operation , but as a family business . my father realized that he can not go it alone , in need of improved access to financing .
second , europeans must take the lead in making responsible use of resources , and become a truly circular economy that minimizes the waste . only 0.6 billion tons – a mere 7.5 % – originate from recycling . only 0.6 billion tons – a mere 7.5 % – originate from recycling . and it means making europe , along with the us automobile industry , its first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . it also means applying strict co2 emissions limits to new passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial sea and air transport .
this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require the americans to once again conceive their role in the world . but the payoff , for both the american and the liberal world order that it has created , would be substantial . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a team of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into a foreign-policy debate that leads to america ’s elections , including by preparing a public debate on the topic . from my perspective as the united nations ’ sole member of the european parliament , an overarching message should be that america must conceive itself not as the “ indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ its indispensable partner . ” the key to its success will be america ’s capacity to retain the un best , abandoning its worst , of which most of america ’s notions : exceptionalism .
so far , china ’s political stability and its relative absence of violence have been achieved at the expense of its economy ’s dynamism , rather than in its harmony . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise represents simply a “ restoration ” of the success that the country enjoyed , before nineteenth-century westernization , has undermined its harmonious system . outsiders have misread this system – “ built on a clearly delineated scheme , ” ” ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-rot-royal legitimacy at the top ” and renting the scholar gentry to administer the affairs of the state ” – as a recipe for stagnation . but the late angus maddison ’s historic per capita gdp estimates imply that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its confrontation with the west . between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income barely shifted from $ 600 to the united states , whereas the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , with even spain ’s doubling .
morocco is well positioned to foster security and development across northwest africa and beyond . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . moreover , morocco is a faithful and longstanding american ally . its political stability , an open economy , and a balanced international relationship are increasingly aligned with that of america and europe ’s regional interests . it would do well to begin cultivating a natural partner in this unfriendly and complex region .
women faculty questions , particularly in basic sciences , are far more complex . as i grow older , i am no longer certain why this is so important , but the male members of our species seem to think so . indeed , i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life . the first is a compulsion to be the first to establish totally trivial facts about science . most of my fellow male faculty faculty are not socialized , testosterone-driven types , but , in their scholarly careers , depicting two types of typically male behavior .
this , together with the prominence of the consultative commission ( which comprises the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , the brookings institution fellow ) , and the level of sensitivity of minority rights broadly combined to turn the project into a national , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have not responded to the tharwa project . it is probably still too soon in play for that to happen . but the project seems to represent the type of activity it can help produce visions for change . some in the syrian government might be aware of this .
that growth reflects the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth came from , how sustainable it was , and which benefits from it . if the us is to learn something from the ongoing crisis , it must begin to ask the right questions . every new bilateral agreement , each chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will it make it easier to facilitate genuine progress and provide a dignified opportunity for those to become economically displaced economically ? in the long run , how sustainable , and how evenly spread will the flow of macroeconomic benefits ?
cambridge – in the euphoric turn immediately following the collapse of the soviet union , few would have assessed that ukraine – a fully industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural-resource base – would suffer stagnation over the next 28 years . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not live up to war . and that shift would come at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . neighboring poland , which has been poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) over the next three decades .
of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , as they did prior to the global financial crisis . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks commit this odd source of financial intermediation , which represents a significant cost , because returns to private financing are larger than this amount of reserves ? here the pattern of currency appreciation is already taking hold , pushed by massive capital inflows from the second quarter of 2009 and , in some cases , can already be said to have become excessive ( for example , in brazil ) . the result , clearly , is more paradoxical : the private-sector funds that flow into these countries are being recycled to american treasuries through investments in accumulated reserves . now , consider the country ’s other major emerging markets .
the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a virtual standstill , and the special-investment vehicles established by banks to obtain mortgages off their balance sheets could no longer obtain overseas financing . the final blow came after interbank lending , which is on the brink of the financial system ’s heartland , was being disrupted , owing to the banks ’ need to the husband and unable to trust their counterparties . that has made the crisis more severe than at any time since the end of world war ii . central banks had to inject unprecedented amounts of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities into a broader range of institutions than ever before . credit expansion now must be followed by a period of contraction , owing to the fact that some new credit tools and practices are both unjust and unsustainable .
trump ’s greatest problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , from which he withdrew the united states – have remained committed to the accord . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to making good on preserving the deal and doing all possible to force iran ’s leaders to continue to abide by it . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the european signatories ’ european signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran at the risk of american retaliation , whereas russia and china have extended their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the history of the western alliance that america ’s allies have joined forces with its rivals .
to compare , the average american pays 15 cents for the dollar . according to african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels , money that they could spend on education , public health , and productive investment . of course , the firms that provide these panels would benefit enormously from tapping this large new market . in other words , at least some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . the efficient answer to this problem exists : solar-power technologies .
today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the richest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of the ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their emissions . reluctant to stand up to those who are ravage our planet , us political leaders latched onto technological solutions , including the geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc included assumptions for such technologies in many of its modeled pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . even the ipcc included assumptions for such technologies in many of its stationing pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
multiplying it up to $ 0.10 by $ 0.10 ( the hypothesized us tariff rate ) and you get just 1.5 % . us imports account for 15 % of us gdp , up from just $ 40 % . permitting some substitution away from more expensive imported goods , with the rate falling below 1 % . and if us growth slows , owing to the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset that by raising interest rates more slowly . at the same time , the absence of higher interest rates , foreign central banks can do the same .
the larger issue raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance between individual rights , including the right to citizenship and the public good . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times out of 20 , when relying on suspicion of involved in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . and yet simply cheating citizenship fails to solve the problem of leaving at large a suspect terrorist , who might then carry out its attack elsewhere , unless , as with sakr , it is actually killed . the ability to pre-revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason why a government may prefer this course to arresting and even trying terrorism suspects . were it to do so with rulings made by the uk government in 2013 that there would still be high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless .
private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further the cost of renewables , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses such as electric vehicles , electric heat and cooking , and a new hydrogen economy . governments should set emissions limits , allowing the private sector to compete to deliver low-cost solutions . as the old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , clean-power generation should replace them in an competitive fashion , such as through its renewable-energy auctions . in general , china and india , in particular , should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should halt financing for new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . the government and entrepreneurship together should fund new research and development to drive the cost of scale even lower .
they have development challenges , but so are the models of economic dynamism and innovations with substantial stakes in how post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to flourish . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of brazil ( the brics , minus russia ) . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be its catalyst for new thinking on global challenges . in the alphabet soup of international policy , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might ultimately prove too unwieldy to be workable . what the malta countries share are strong economic growth and increased influence outside of their own borders .
it left too little to close the output gap , leaving persistent downward pressure on the demand side . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and expenditures added more to the national debt than to gdp . much of the “ stimulus ” ” merely financed increased spending by state governments , which would have gone for other ways . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it embarked on a “ unconventional monetary policy ” strategy , ” which pursued a combination of large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with its promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate extremely low for an extended period . the goal was to spur portfolio investors to shift into equities and other assets , with the consequent rise in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending .
despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see the euro as a cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone , toward a closer union . as a result , denmark might be the last to vote , but not necessarily joining . in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . indeed , danish voters saw most of the benefits of european membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged link with the dm , which , before nearly 15 years , was equivalent to the euro . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of european ’s supporters to explain the gap between this unchallenged policy and full european participation .
conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must first move toward denuclearization , before any degree of economic assistance is offered . but there is no reason why any international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies to bring about domestic reform . to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only impediment to international engagement . on the contrary , it may be impossible to win back north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s denuclearization drive for denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change . we do n’t assume that such goals can not be pursued at the same time .
rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has , in turn , resulted in a massive distributive conflict . the mutual mistrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably hurt both the soul of the eu and the entire european project . and no one should doubt that the front and its voters mean what they are saying . at its heart , europe ’s political crisis has been the eurozone ’s anchor of economic and financial malaise that neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . what was once a relationship among equals has given faceless way between borrowers and lenders .
in the section of the “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and consumers ’ economies of scale , a firm that lays out the lead for market share gains at an almost exorbitant gain . unless its rivals take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps -- like those taken by microsoft against a netscape , its rival in an online browser market , by pouring a fortune in creating their internet explorer and then distributing it for free , the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap the high returns as long as its industry lasts . in fact , the bigger the dprong , the greater the cost advantage . the version with the largest market share becomes the standard ; the simplest is to draw out how to use , the simplest to find support for , and a one that works best with those of another ( which , of course , is designed to work best with it ) . moreover , next-generation information goods that produce even more value for consumers also have higher value .
this is not to say that any vulnerable migrant must be accepted as well . but the eu should be far more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and it should implement organized ways to make it easier for them to enter . that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority is to create the safe and legal pathways to refugees reaching europe . such a system would protect both migrants and protect europe ( by allowing it to triage fully ) .
in recent years , american policy and policy institutions have become more deeply polarized than distributing opinion in the american public would suggest . the us economy was exacerbated by the downturn after 2008 . three-quarters of americans feel connected through their communities , and say that the quality of life there is excellent or good news ; 40 % say that working with others within their own community is among the greatest things that can be done . citizens ’ behavior seems not to have changed as dramatically as have their reactions to poll numbers . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ americanization ” of the political system was designed to make federal legislation difficult , rather than easy .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or , as a moving image , telling us not only where we are but where we have been , and where we might be headed . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t exited a war at all . it compares with an enormous gap . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter transportation , deflects the city ’s familiar – while resolving congestion . moreover , innovation may drive the pollution abatement into it , too . initiatives that advance pollution action abatement goals while providing equitable access to services among residents should subsidize the central government . that , for example , is not necessarily an indication of people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach may eventually lead to de-sensitization . in fact , awareness is at the third pillar of a strategy to address air pollution .
a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals to an overall agreement – might resume . everything else has already failed , perhaps becoming the sole choice left behind for both israelis and palestinians . perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrously . in the meantime , one people ’s priority is an end to de-escalation , stabilization , and policy consolidation within palestinian societies .
first , the european financial stability facility must serve as a rescue in the banking system , just as it does its member states . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain just the same , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would reduce the size needed by governments . doing so would enable sovereign-debt financing to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would reduce the level needed by governments . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true objective of rescue operations .
while no one knows that corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who supported him , might decide that the eu is a wealthy man ’s club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . in this scenario , the conservative party ’s far-right component leaders are likely to think that they can dispense with offers of disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , in any event . second , without an effective and responsible opposition , governments can turn themselves into arrogance , careless , and overly oriented toward their own supporters . on the contrary , at the outset , he may be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has gained wary respectability but is not much loved . third , at some stage in the process , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union .
the american government felt that it had a weak hand because it was not prepared to let aig default on any of its obligations . the us bailout came with aig ’s massive losses on derivative trades with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after its government assumed an infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so the government allocated substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . at that point , the us government asked aig of its derivative counterparties to assume a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accept a discount on the amount owed to them . when some of these parties refused , the us government backed down , financing aig for paying all of its derivative obligations completely .
gaza is ruled by an entirely hostile regime in principle . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hopes being stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process have been completely dashed . in some ways , hamas ’s “ coup ” makes things clearer . israel has long since decided that it has little interest in resuming its control over the gaza strip . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and resume a rocket fire on civilian targets within the country .
the worldwide population grew above 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over the subsequent 50 years , with economies growing far more rapidly than they did in earlier decades . by the late 1970s , growth had begun to slow even in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that had super-charged activity . now , technological innovation and demographics constitute headwinds , rather than tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day . the aberrant period in us history is centuries or so after the american civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunication and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . human lives became markedly more productive , and the life expectancies rose dramatically .
the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as the ldp ’s junior secretary general , is an exemplar of this bewildering legacy . the core of japan ’s ’s political inertia consists of the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because the party ’s divisions are in fact devoid of any consistent ideological and policy differences . the sad outlook for the ldp will reform or that the dpj will evolve into a competent cabinet party in the foreseeable future is slim . indeed , japan appears doomed to endure chronic and pointless political trench warfare until some of the crisis forces the realignment of the political party along its ideological and policy lines . both parties include conservatives and liberals , defensiveness and doves .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists that leadership of such a government . and , because his suspension from the parliament had involved outraged rebel conservatives who had formerly balked at bringing down his own government , a no-confidence vote now stands a greater chance of success . but bringing the government down with a no-deal brexit would be inadequate to stem the tide of no-deal brexit . that would require conservative insurgents , the opposition liberal democrats ( spd ) , and also mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order – . at the same time , the rebels ’ motley crew would need to support the formation of a caretaker government that would seek the extension of brexit , calling the general election and possibly legislate for a second referendum .
asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , based on research and development conducted exclusively in the americas ( most underpinned by federal government finance ) . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to allow it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a miniscule tax to irs . those profits should , therefore , be taxed in the american public . curiously , the irs chooses not to enforce apple ’s obligation to tax its profits on its us-sourced ip return . this arrangement has also required the usually vigilant of american personal internal revenue service to play along .
every one has gained the ( or sustains ) power of polarizing their societies , and is mobilizing their electoral base . this has given confrontational politicians a powerful edge and generates the kind of electoral polarization on which the pekos have fed . to be sure , this political strategy is undoubtedly potent . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by the emergence of a modern news media that , scrambling to share the audience , streamline , and sensationalize issues . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most attention .
that suggestion may be amusing comes from a baby , but there is nothing amusing it when governments are applied , as they increasingly do , to elaborate policies involving both science and technology . to gauge public opinion in advance of the decisions planned for later this year about whether to allow commercial planting of gm crops , britain ’s government sponsored bt ( at great cost ) a host of public debate worldwide . the head of the organizing panel of british debates , professor malcolm grant , called them a “ unique experiment in finding what ordinary people actually think they did once have heard all arguments . ” local governments and other organizations have hosted hundreds of incremental public meetings in may . britons had their say during this summer on whether they want gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields , and foodstuffs .
there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders keen to return to business as usual with russia , as well as academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with which they were squeezed . today , european governments appear willing to allow putin to have bought the votes , with which he erodes the eu . in fact , the kremlin is funding many of these parties . and , with public-opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans is falling into putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato looks like a real headway .
inappropriate farming practices are also to blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizers ; for example , they decimates organisms inhabiting soils and changing their structures . at the same time , global demand for food , fodder , and the development of biomass for fuels has been growing , in turn driving the value of land – a fact that has not escaped international investors ’ attention . according to a world bank estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – a land that would account for millions of smallholders , pastoralists , pastoralists , and indigenous people – has been hit by massive investment . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in much of the places , a cloudburst is now all that it takes to lament it . in germany itself , building projects claimed , the average of more than 75 hectares a day .
the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . an america ’s war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant and imminent iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as the major terrorist attack , the invasion of an ally in the gulf war , or the disruption of the free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . iran , like north korea , will continue testing obama ’s capacity to build an internationally oriented alliances aimed at exerting renewed pressure on defiant states . convinced that , history will judge the us president by his success in containing the iranian threat , himself broder also predicts that a war with iran would “ reignite ” america ’s economy . that is an odd fantasy , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded america ’s weaknesses .
for example , when a government borrows to buy land , it treats its treatment as debt , but the reassuring transaction when it sells the ground through a mortgage effectively goes unrecognized . yet the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and omits as expenditures – continue to impede investments required to modernize public-sector enterprises , putting a major roadblock in the path of reform of land . still , the imf ’s economic framework fails to provide for countercyclical fiscal policies because the imf remains ambivalent about the “ keynesian ” prescription of stimulating the economy in the downturn . it is here that germany should take its pause and look at the record . while germany ’s president does not intend to intervene in a country ’s day-to-day governance , his voice will undoubtedly be influential .
washington , dc – donald trump was officially inaugurated as america ’s president , but questions about russia ’s electoral interference will not go off . yet one key question often lingers at the fray : why has russian president vladimir putin done so ? to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin preferred trump to his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a split between hoping for an outcome and reality lengths to spend , and incurring great risks , in order to help bring it about . in our view , america ’s national intelligence agencies are reportedly now saying that , by helping trump , the kremlin advanced its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not exactly convincing .
nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts as well – not least in its convergence of vision and execution . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease with which business is doing business in india , while targeting better delivery mechanisms for the welfare system . no amount of budget change could generate so much as a marker , cost-free acceleration of growth . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % in the coming fiscal year . it is fair to say that the typically staid statistics stole the thunder from this year ’s budget .
but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , spending substantial resources to make itself attractive overseas . following the failure of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity arrangement of the 1930 ’s ( which had a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliances with america . in its first decades in office , communist china built up its military power and followed the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and a third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country evolved only modest levels of military and soft power . but , following the depletion of the maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development .
at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to remain the engine of reform . to succeed , the government must , as xi has put it , the “ gnaw even the tough bones ” – which are , overcome the vested interests that are resisting change . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone so far as to capture his retired member of the politburo standing committee , china ’s most powerful body . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have been falling dramatically since the beginning of this year , with the authorities seemingly well-on track to hit the carbon-intensity target set forth in 2010 . regulatory reform begins with the removal of shadow-banking risks , with even some ghost towns reviving market forces .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
so the female ministers proclaim that street crime will be halved next spring , or that the share of every generation will rise to universities up to 50 % in the next five years . in keeping with the spirit of the times , governments are introducing business criteria to measure efficiencies -- and an " achievement , " more generally an increase in public services . for the most part , that means setting performance targets . this method of governance makes it appear that , at the long last , we can hold policymakers accountable by determining whether or not targets have been reached . waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by one third in two years .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo has invented a novel extreme sport , a soccer match in which he is a sole player . toledo claimed that he would dispatch all dishonest officials to prison – words that captured the imagination of peruvians , who yearned to see criminal politicians brought to justice . this helps to explain why , with more than half of his term in the left , the man leading a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % of his popularity ratings today – the lowest head of any peruvian leader since the 1980 ’s , when democracy was restored . toledo assumed that he intended to dismantle the corruption that had characterized fujimori ’s administrations and ended the reign of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . instead of kicking the ball to victory , he aims to make his opponent scores so .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debates with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . another event that might turn the tables would be an “ october surprise ” link to terrorism , which could shift the us agenda from a financial crisis back to security , the republicans ’ stronger suit . a mistake in the us presidential debate may turn that tide of public opinion overnight , just as it did to us president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . back in 2004 , soon before the election , osama bin laden released a videos that may have helped president bush beat his senator , john kerry . from bin laden ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s point of view , bush ’s policies provided a greater opportunity for his effort to recruit supporters than kerry might have .
that search , after all , threatens to divide the nation ’s ’s ’s ’s elite . so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who really represents what that elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi have any entrance into politics have brought about an ideal resolution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir ? but i do see a practical turn in all of this that nobody has broached yet . let us make up the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi , in 2007 .
the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 strongly depends on continued economic growth via trade , technological innovation , and international collaboration . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and broadly undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the most vulnerable in africa and other under-developed regions , while doing almost nothing to help coal-fired coal miners in west virginia . their mythical tribe was great in some mythical past to try to recreate this ? such thinking poses a profound threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the powerful will always manage , but the weakness will be borne by the burdens of nostalgic protectionism that are eroding the benefits of globalization .
without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as the backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the chinese communist party ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . at the same time , state engagement is needed to help manage the rise in inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not be counted on to do the same . moreover , the chinese state has resolved coordination problems , which are neither easy nor efficient with decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities can be at different stages of development . still others argue that encouraging the innovations needed to reach high-income status requires the state to be made less like a market participant and more like the referees , regulator , and arbiter of its economic and social priorities .
almost all of egypt ’s political actors , as elsewhere in the arab world , recognize the need for economic reform . but economic urgency does not translate into a policy response that has been painfully slow or non-existent . egypt , for example , has been running a fiscal deficit of more than 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . last year ’s government cut fuel subsidies to its government last year failed to follow through with additional reform , with the required tax increases before president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries has found that , among the almost one-half that lower public expenditures have reduced public expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawing food subsidies , and targets and rationalizing already meager social-protection systems . so far , such adjustment measures are often adopted without careful consideration of their social impact . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from lack of food and health care ? how many children will miss out on education is because teachers are absent from low wages , or simply because poorer children must work to supplement their family income ? and yet , this might well happen , too well .
the first scenario is grim : germany has failed to integrate refugees socially and economically ; its surges of political discontent ; and spain and spain have become increasingly frustrated with their plight . indeed , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future could play out in two ways . first , the world has a large stake in which the “ scenario ” prevails . any steps they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists and could fuel violence from both parties . if at the worst of the current violence were the result of a terrorist attack – especially one that could , in some ways , be linked to the refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters . in this regard , the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square , rather than from the obama administration represents a positive development . successful political transitions also helps if more and more citizens come to feel empowered by violence and the resulting transition . what is clear is that the interests of the “ military as an institution ” depend on the army ’s capacity to establish much greater distance from the regime . on the other hand , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some horse riding camels or mounts – to blame into cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government protesters has been a classic “ military as government ” move .
evidently , they will find themselves working in close collaboration with the ugandan forces as well . but does uganda ’s operation , following so closely in the libya intervention , herald the police role played by the us whenever the un or the icc – which , lacking its own policing force , rely on their members , and inter-services cooperation – the judiciary is indispensable ? given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its own tormentors of justice to us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both transnational and domestic political attack . yet the extent of america ’s cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the constructive us role that the obama administration has proposed . evidently , american policymakers are increasingly receptive to the international criminal court ’s potential to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement .
one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes are putting them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope of reaching the top 1 % someday . so why are n’t americans becoming more alarm at the level of their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason that they do n’t seem to be that most americans do n’t recognize any of what is happening . deep at the core of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : the belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you get with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves rather than the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make them a better life ; and that those who succeed do not come through and from corruption but through the preparation and development of the industry . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy , and they can provide them with social democracy .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity , one that we know how to achieve it . they have emerged from the largest recent summit in the un ’s history , a “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the most consultation that the un has ever undertook . that is the course set by world leaders when they met at the un in new york later september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . its 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health , in order to protect the planet ’s biosphere , and provide energy for everyone . if we set our mind , we could be the first in human history to leave our children with anything but a living : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity .
thus , noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone , while less polarizing , less-privileged voices are being drowned out , even as the smart , nuanced perspectives that may actually enrich the public debate . if the algorithm fails to do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hate and threatening speech at whomever they choose . as long as the algorithm fails to do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hate and threatening speech at whomever they chose . the victims of online falsehoods often overreact with self-censorship , and germany , with its sense of safety and even self-worth , has eroded its disregard for social media altogether . the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become the object of conspiracy theories and targets of intense harassment after being present at two weeks of terrorist strikes .
africans have barely represented in american politics , and vice versa . at least few people in the rich world are still doing better than america 's . at the same time , they are simply poor , starving , and disease-ridden communities . africans are not voting ; they are not buying american products ; they are threatened by violence . i single out america not because it is unique in its disregard , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s ’s ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . hence , as trump put it in 1932 , he may have “ no escape ” from the prolonged and perhaps interminable depression , except through direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – which is , what the obama administration is rightly doing . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate looks even more . in my opinion , keynes ’s important contribution to economic theory has been to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness ” inherent in the basis of knowledge on which our estimates of the prospective yield have to be made . krugman is hampered by the point that he strikes a crash to “ irrationality ” irrationality , ” which , cochrane point out , is no theory .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making the decisions of which path to take exceedingly difficult positions . for too long , however , moral rectitude and an economic interest merge presenting , presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and former us finance minister – with the world bank ’s reaction to climate change . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , for the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are portrayed most keenly by the global poor , who also have benefited the most from the economic activities that they cause .
he was the consummate artist of the french scene , chameleon beamed out of satellite tv , dripping up with misleading swedish and real-life glitz , the artist who confessed as a way of lying . and on that day , he was so well lamented that his absence seemed a part of a show , somehow extricating us to forget that it was no longer the us . hallyday was the baby of a generation that watched the american gis enter paris , and that was devised for itself as part of an american ascendance . and then there was the ’60s rocker with the eyes of a sorry martin wolf and touekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in a rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to live at the edges of every form of overstretch . abiding in every us was the joseams that led us all : youth spent with the traveling act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a natch of modiano who , between bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to him by his half-son .
it was , of course , out of ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type we see regularly today . the keys to this period of growth and happiness were each of a strong social-welfare system and mostly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all the world ’s big states . the job insecurity back then was mostly unknown , and the era of mass poverty vanished . more importantly , each advanced an economy pursued policies designed to deliver high wages to ensure high levels of consumption – and thus to rapid growth . moreover , the post-wwii decades of one-party capitalism have maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan .
in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europeans needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . but , like de gaulle ’s ’s ’s declaration and may ’s ’s ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements have employed the language of political ambiguity . the us has a shared interest in , and , but not in its most important way , the eu is not absorbing ” it . that seems to reflect a stance , expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne , that has helped set the stage for brexit . solidarity ( at least the type that cost money ) has stopped at the english channel .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran , as well as on other governments in the future , to reassure and account for the protesters ’ safety . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” ” those who support free assembly . in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him exactly how to follow up , sustain , and encourage those iranians who have been or are yet to be apprehended or worse . that will be welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes has installed and ransacked by america , and to opposition leaders and us-languishing by us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protest . natan sharon has argued that this tactic – the west tracing and demanding accountability for treating individual internal dissenters as it helps break up the soviet union .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to bolster the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in better ties with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make strong sense for a similar reason . russia should be treated as a major power , which means consultations on a significant global issue . there should also be some understanding for what the russian and russian peoples have been going through over the last two decades . losing the country and a special place in the world are the kinds of trauma that might lead to the emergence of extreme and potentially violent nationalism .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that the center-left party can neither win nor govern with a hard-left vision , and lula ’s presidency has not challenged that view . whatever the case , for key brazilian left leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become part of the solution , rather than a core problem . brazil ’s consensus may have reflected lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market-based economies worldwide and the rise of brazil ’s middle class . the largest are not always those of law on which the world bank and development agencies have targeted ; rather , they are the business risks of an failing company or a polity that implodes . in fact , investors , according to the imf , accept all kinds of risks , including economic growth .
when things can be made , harnessed , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transport is diminishing dramatically . one big loser in this world will be the freight business ( along with junkyards , the logistics corporation , and its highly centralized recycling operation ) . recycled materials may not be delivered to centralized processing centers and then handed over to factories . products will not have to be made in these factories , and then shipped to shoppers or seed centers . to be sure , some of the reduced costs will be somebody else ’s diminishing income , as opposed to apple .
london – back in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included the development of higher-yielding crop varieties – increased irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural output worldwide . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , which is plagued most by rapid crop shortfalls and rising food-price volatility . indeed , by 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion , up from 2.9 billion today . achieving food insecurity means ensuring that everyone has a consistent , affordable approach to good soil , notwithstanding land and water constraints , climate change , and increasing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . reducing these challenges will be no easy feat .
turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt worldwide . indeed , for many years now , erdoğan ’s domestic critics of erdoğan ’s government have yielding a declaration of what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” ” . europe is to turkey the “ principle of moderation ” and a enticement to remain a democratic one . in reality , turkey needs europe just as much as europe needs turkey . but the course of history can change any more rapidly in the world .
in fact , in the last year alone , 56,000 cancer deaths will still surpass roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . yet , despite all this , us government expenditures on cancer averages roughly $ 4 trillion ( $ 618 trillion ) annually . more people , on the other hand , died from cancers in the americas last year than they have in warfare . in fact , in the us , experience last year indicates that governments are often struggling to align themselves with underlying or mounting problems , such as a public-health threat until they arrive at the peak of the crisis . that ’s just over 0.5 % of annual us military budgets of roughly $ 718 billion .
i have used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . i hoped that we would have the nerve to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , asking the big question , “ why did 15 of our youthful men attack america in such a brutal way ? ” so far , we are no closer than we were after the assault to respond to that question , because we ca n’t even find the nerve to ask it . a journalist visiting saudi arabia recently asked me why five out of the six students he interviewed by king saud university still believe that al qaeda was not responsible for the world trade center and pentagon attacks in america last year ? dealing with this question is increasingly frustrating for me , because i ran from plausible explanations .
whereas tunisia was an extreme case of regime furthering the economic interests of a tiny clique of insiders , the pattern was widespread . income inequality , moreover , has widened , with the global phenomenon of rising wealth concentration at the upper quartile of many arab countries . what is clearly needed is a growth-enhancing strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not an afterthought . top incomes in these countries have come largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work . that is why a knee-jerk looking for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not an afterthought .
trump ’s protectionist policies are thus challenging the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950 ’s . but that is no longer the case , either . indeed , trump ’s recent moves focus not only on trade , but on america ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries are more linked to the postwar global order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based international trading system . germany ’s ’s economy is relying heavily on its exports , which means acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major trading partners .
during macron ’s first five-year term , he should therefore focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % annually , bringing the unemployment rate down to below 6 % . the simplest way to achieve both objectives would be to focus on where france underperforms relative to other eu countries . part of the unemployed challenge is tied to hidden costs . france has some of the highest labor costs for the eu ’s hourly workers , and a natural consequence is tepid hiring . with inequality also increasing , many french are rightly upset that labor is taxed far more than capital income gains .
in early december , putin signed a federal budget for 2015 , which foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , combined with the tough economic sanctions imposed by the us and europe , meant that by the end of this month the us government forecasts a 4 % decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that after budget cuts cost 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that , by the end of this year , russia will be spending 70 % of the reserve fund accrued through the end of 2016 . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of the money supply by the end of 2016 . still , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with a single touch of smartphones , wo n’t they then pour into this safe asset at the first sign of trouble in the domestic economy ? given that libra will take the form of private money connected to a basket of stable major currencies , how would this work in practice ? but , of course , libra is being sold as much more than it does this . as one facebook executive put it , we want to send money to be as easy as sending a text message . the standard “ efficient market-” analysis does not help us to answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting .
the yield on ten-year german bonds that might have been higher , owing to the deterioration of inflationary expectations during this period , had barely moved . the recently rising euro also helped to keep european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations worsened somewhat in the periphery . during april , the rise in inflationary expectations and the euro appreciation occurred more or less of the concurrently . that , in turn , is a huge plus for sustaining an economic recovery . should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america ’s financial assets at some point in the long run , a rising euro will help shield european interest rates from effects .
of the six larger eu states , only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . of the united kingdom , the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with the future set to be determined by the scottish referendum back in 2014 . italy ’s political entity is the exact counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of the splintering or fissuring . when stressed , great surface bifurcates in large chunks , but then disintegration continues within smaller , smaller fragments . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of the color of small and medium-size political units .
we believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust the us government when it says that $ 100 is $ 100 , not ten or even $ 50 . once that trust breaks down , bad things happen , because we do n’t . we do n’t grow up up wishing for crooks and liars to work . money , therefore , is about trust , without which no society can function . just as tendering is followed by our leaders ’ commands to fight and die because we trust their judgment , tenaciously empowering our careers , and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs , and other such banks through the belief that their leaders will be fair to their employees and their business practices .
ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ossified structure could not have been salvaged ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s basic decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like franco and sanders , gorbachev was an implausible reformer , stalin was the first to bear fruit . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , not to rage , in sharp contrast to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . likewise , far from fitting the mold of his democratic machine , sanders is working to pull the party back “ to the social-democratic left , where it belongs . ” despite his ascent to power with the kgb ’s backing , he has failed to surrender his thought processes to that machine , in the manner that president vladimir putin clearly possesses .
new york – for obvious reasons , america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . whatever the economics , taking this route might be harder today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates can punish governments that accept what is universally viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . those in the developing world who believe that a history of bargaining has taken hold in bad faith has a strong case . unsurprisingly , rich countries ’ negotiators throw around big numbers , when describing the gains from even imperfect agreement . that leaves developing countries facing a hard choice : will they be better off accepting that offer to them ?
princeton – recently , physicists at the big hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , situated near geneva at the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) , announced the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was indeed a higgs boson . four years ago , doomsayers forecast that the lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that will swallow earth in a matter of months . the latter-day nostrums have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , of the highest-energy particle physics experiments . obviously , these prophets have been neither the first nor the last of their species . now the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the exception of one important factor : black holes .
monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments scrambled to tame the hyperinflation that peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 . introducing the “ actual plan , ” ” ” ” ” ” launched in 1994 , managed to push annual price growth toward the “ acceptable ” rate of 22 % by the end of this year . riding on the schedule ’s success , his architect , fernando henrique cardoso , the former minister of economy , was twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concern about price stability . today , as central bankers in the developed world celebrate the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and weakening the us stock market , these “ universe masters ” ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short time ago . and it was not only the great bankers at davos doghouse that year , but also their regulators – central bankers – were . those who thought that globalization , technology , and market economies would solve the world ’s problems seemed subdued . the most chastened of all , was former central bankers .
diamond has discovered that , ultimately , policymakers from trump bankers – at least in the uk – in the us . the european central bank has provided a big emergency “ liquidity ” funding to banks that they are using to purchase even more of their government ’s debts . that is holding down interest rates on that short of debt in the short run , but creating even bigger potential losses when it comes to potential insolvency . banks and politics are deeply intertwined in every advanced economy , and there is an important link between them and the us . now , in the face of the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone ’s periphery , government defaults threaten to take off major banks .
for starters , the anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980s has become an increasingly tight drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiencies in existing production systems . provided that the us government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to healthcare , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . this could address fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure-investment and investment-led management between the public and private sectors , with the goal of crowding in the latter . even so , brazil has a long way to go . despite low average growth rates , the incomes of the top quintile of the population grew at an average annual rate of over 6 % in the 2000 ’s , largely owing to cost-effective welfare policies .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a few african countries all comprise the rest of the region . according to the latest figures running through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( a red line in that figure ) . the share of countries record outright deflation in the price of consumers ( the greens ) in 2015 is greater than it was when countries experiencing double-digit rates ( 7 % of gdp ) . in the period following the s & p crude oil shocks of the mid-1970s until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of countries recorded non-annual inflation rates above 10 % . venezuela ( which did not issue official inflation statistics later this year ) and argentina ( which have failed to release any solid inflation data for a few years ) figure prominently in this group .
in the absence of sufficient funding , one might simply let universities deteriorate . for the most part , the quick fixes that they imposed so far have not been hugely successful . on the european continent , this has been happening since the 1970s . overcrowded classrooms in often inadequate physical surroundings without the necessary facilities have led to ever-prolonged school periods , deteriorating quality , and great adversity among students and professors . in the case of higher education , the alternative is , of course , still .
only war ’s carnage , sad to assert , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . the need for kosovo to free itself from milosevic ’s grip has been so evident throughout the decade . as a political activist in the final days of yugoslavia , i tried to build upon the philosophy of outlawed , leaders led demonstrations and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . two million koreans suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their life , from basic safety to education . for years , they tried to voice their grievances through peaceful means .
that phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , which was established in 1928 . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt ’s return of power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was only its success . indeed , a half-century later , the arab world ’s simultaneous revolts were the product of neither political tendencies , instead reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and repressive authoritarian governments . at the same time that efforts at nation-building along secular lines reflected egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , the resulting establishment of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thus cleaning up its way for what would be the most secular , fairest election in any of the region ’s countries .
berlin – how we eat in the industrialized world is unsound , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , 300 million tons of food are generated every year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual rate will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 , if demand continues to grow at its current rate . such large amounts of meat can be produced solely on an industrial scale and at high levels of social , political , and ecological costs . and now our industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south – namely , india and china – where meat consumption is on the rise among those emerging middle class countries . far too much of the meat that we consume is being produced under the questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policy have been in taxation , regulatory , trade , and infrastructure . a fourth area exists only in the context of rhetoric : infrastructure program currently lacks some parts of a macroeconomic policy repertoire . so a third area is extremely important , one that is why trade tensions are so unsettling today . having studied first in detail , i have found that tax cuts to be a positive international contributor to economic growth . while i regarded a second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is at best only a minor contributor to growth .
like gordon notes , there have been long-long-run labor-productivity dividend linked to urbanization – a trend that could continue for at least another decade , in china . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the “ frontier ” of the advanced economies . absent powerful innovations , sustaining anemic productivity growth will prove an uphill battle . at that point , china will face the same kind of productivity challenges that confront america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk .
but the roadmap was projected to depress economic activity even further and fail to establish an appropriate foundation for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need . the sad reality is that the window of opportunity for puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not captured . on the contrary , its oversight council recently certified its new fiscal plan and an agreement with bond holders issued by puerto rico ’s urgent interest fund firms ( cofina ) that could place the island in the debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , the executive stock of cofina ’s ten-year bonds ( bolstered by future sales-fiscal revenues ) , accounting for more than one-third of the total debt under the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , one that relies on an unrealistic assessment of the commonwealth ’s economic conditions .
the us has raised awareness about the displaced ’s plight , pulled about changes in government policies , and raised billions of dollars in aid to respond to their fundamental need . the achievements are a notable , if insufficient outcome . ten years on , what impact has those principles experienced on displaced people ’s lives ? humanitarian efforts remain strengthened , including through a new swift funding mechanism , the united nations central emergency response fund . this , in turn , has helped to save countless lives .
andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen ’s history , has been blunt on his moral judgments . “ the man who dies the wealthy , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” we can tailor that judgment to a man or woman who has wears a $ 30,000 watch , or buys any kind of luxury goods , such as the bag of $ 12,000 . wearing a watch that costs 200 times as much , one that does the better job of keeping time says something else , even as it burns by people that do n’t regulate a relatively poor country . basically , such a person is said ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or only plain selfish people .
in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 entries , parfit challenge that idea , almost universally assumed by economists , and much of the philosophers in david hume ’s onward , that the role of reason is to tell us how we can get what we want , but not tell us what to do . on the other hand , parfit argued , aspirations can be as irrational . he demonstrates that both a total ” and a “ average ” answer has a paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . if reasons and humans were easily conserved by three separate books , on what matters really is : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , whereas a third , in the press , when parfit died , has just re-emerged . but then , so is each other ’s response , which was suggested since parfit revived the problem , and other philosophers began to offer solutions .
furthermore , we must reduce our mental health inequity , a frequently ignored topic . this has often been an issue in low - and middle-income communities , where populations can be at greater risk of pathology and often take on top of the barriers to getting care , partly owing to a dearth of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . seeking mental health care should be just as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , diabetes , or heart condition . by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , in schools , and communities just as well . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , like the zimbabwe friendship bench , and i look forward to learn more about this project from one of its deputies in davos .
experts argue that the probability of terrorist attacks as a result of the dubai takeover are small . but the damage inflicted by an attack might be moderated , because ports are thought to be one of the few paths that terrorists might smuggle on their american nuclear weapons . because of this , americans can no longer afford to take even the minutest of their chances with their harbors , the effects of mistakes are too staggering to contemplate . the american public understands this , even if their actual president does not . should the damage inflicted on a terror attack also come from a small us attack , none of whose actions would likely be .
first , revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military intervention in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-level summit in its own right . second , the international financial crisis will have enormous implications for nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a major speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived a debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to take place in the united states in 13 years takes place not only during an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes . yet smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-small farms account for 60 % of world agriculture production , and provide up to 80 % of food supply in the developing world . together , they manage vast areas of our planet , including about 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , with many desperately poor people taking a lead role in tackling our twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? will they produce more food as they protect their natural environment ?
one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors in the us . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated “ critical to the government ’s national security . ” that ban , while beneficial to industrial insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets and , increasingly , critical to the new technologies that are following remittances . lifting these restrictions would not only give the economy an immediate boost ; it would also boost long-term gdp growth . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced unification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as did the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions on food imports from the european union and the us .
in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when the leaders in france and germany were still extremely hesitant about eu enlargement . but the uk ’s endorsement had a catch : british leaders ; they reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use a widening of eu membership to counter the deepening of european integration . throughout the negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the brexit referendum , british prime minister david cameron gained an opt-outs from the eu ’s decision to move toward an ever-closer union . the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been slight . should greece prevail in a referendum and persuade voters to remain in may , send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe .
business majors should study economic and political history , in order to avoid becoming a blind act of determinists . and law students in the future will require vocational training in ethics , helping them to navigate a world in which a value of a human being can no longer be taken for granted . educators are preparing their students to make this future only now . economists need to learn from engineering graduate students because that will be engineers building the future workforces . and law students should focus on the crossroads of big data and human rights for gaining the insight that will be needed to defend people from forces that may try to turn individuals into disposable parts .
the top-down hierarchy is both autocratic and arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input and no right of appeals . sporadic complaints and warnings from above have allowed them to develop an counterintuitive sense of the boundary of acceptable content , so they produce proof that are free from offending material , from the beginning . at the same time , the system has evolved into a mostly self-regulating process . in my experience , 99 % of all international censorship occurs with the writers and producers themselves . severe breaches can result in reprimands or dismissals .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to extend the diet an existing session for more than 95 days until june 27 has made it the longest session in japan ’s postwar parliament . abe ’s actions in the diet came on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with the japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer plans to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . for the preceding 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 focused focusing on economic debates in such meetings on such meetings , content to remain largely quiet as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , recommending action , or , more often , inaction . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a set of domestic security bills permitting a reinterpretation of japan ’s ’s constitution that enables the country to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put its enlargement on hold so long as the russian and us presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , proposing that talks not be left in the hands of nato machinery alone . this visit yielded yet another appeal not to rush nato enlargement . in germany ’s parliament earlier this month , he announced that yeltsin would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , like nato enlargement … and i was able to reach agreement with president clinton , president chirac and prime minister major state that we would now refrain from dealing decisively with the important matters of nato-enlargement under some framework in order to make moscow feel that we are forming acfiat . ” to underline this , german first foreign-policy activity after it returned from his summer holiday , was a visit in early september to the polish boris yeltsin , with whom kohl had friendly relations .
but , as with any change of just such magnitude , there are holdouts . in this world with no utopia , individual freedom is the supreme value . moreover , these changes are triggering changes of human knowledge as well . the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , which comprise a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and personal responsibility . only this , fogel believes , can account for recent longevity trends , body sizes , the durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases .
london – the gravity of the euro crisis has finally sunk in . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . so far , many questions have been answered about design ; implementation will be , at least as challenging as it is so far . at the same time , the stakes could not be higher . governments and the international financial institutions have returned to put together a solution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not well-being with war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . washington , dc , while much of the developed world feels adequately worried about myriad human privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding , and securing , for individuals the self-forgotten right , ” what much around the world presents a very different question : what about the right to be perceived ?
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss have re-investigated their government ’s drug policies with a more pragmatic eye . the swiss national health office has also overseen experimentation in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency over a considerable period of time . for example , medical professionals have taken the lead in pressing the government – through direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting , punishing drug users toward public-health policies that are based on scientific evidence of what works . the swiss have implemented methadone drug programs and , to prevent the spread of hiv , creating needle exchanges , including in prisons , establishing safe injection rooms on a large scale .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances such as artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of our economies , and labor markets , has long been a hot topic . soon , a new kind of augmented uber could emerge , integrating vehicles , bus , ships , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app could re-emerge . one relatively well-well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets has been the ability to earn huge returns in a context of high-speed trading by becoming micro second “ ahead ” after all . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book humans need not apply : google ’s guide for wealth and work in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed me the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . another is the price-discrimination capacity of novel electronic market makers like uber , which thus fits every penny from the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily accessible water at home , and more than twice that number , a whopping 4.5 billion – inadequate sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling some climate-pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many others – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protections , water provision , and health could no longer be more important . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is critical . in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating the needed from the desirable . global health and conservation professionals must work more closely to find these solutions – and to convince policymakers to pursue them .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than an electricity usage . firms across industries now need to invest in understanding new technology to enable them to seize opportunity or mount an efficient defense quickly . indeed , large firms in nearly any field are vulnerable as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and competent , such as larger firms , by reaching buyers and users everywhere . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , assessing how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their profit pools . additionally , disruptive technologies will bring value to the shift among economic sectors , as happened when television overtook radio or , more recently , as online media gained predominance over print publication .
the challenge amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete goals . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to nurture almost two billion more people adequately – no small feat . though the developing world has had 1.7 billion more people than it did in 1991 , 209 million are currently unemployable . over the next year , the world ’s ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global targets that must be met by 2030 . by 2013 , the share had dropped to 13.5 % .
new york – 15 people were killed and many more injured in what bears reminded us as the peterson institute for peterloo . the greed and corruption of this era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : a story of these men today . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the rotten boroughs and extended its franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . given its recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite reluctantly agreed to democratizing these reforms . the united states , too , went even though a landmark era of robin hood industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s .
narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : across the west , much of the public perceives globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled train . what make matters so much worse in britain , though , is a string of crude flaws in political judgment during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . while the defeats remain side waged an economics campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting from the eu , the victorious leave side waged a culture war by exaggerating fears about immigration and asserting its need for patriotic britons to “ “ “ take back control . ” but , thanks to farage – and the faragism who took over the governing conservative party – an act of economic self-restraint that unambiguously runs counter to the national interest portrays as the apotheosis of british patriotism . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to the economic discontent of the millions losing from the eu , but also to a kind of cultural pessimism and politicians ’ dismissal as being “ trump ” in it merely for themselves ” who rally succor toward populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
it has been successful because of strong public support for fighting corruption . ande has proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution . a new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflicts and duplications . reflecting existing laws and regulations found that many are contradictory and overlapping . every firm and business association must decide on good strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries .
a year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what the us stands up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and disband state property , at its will . in the evicting that the regime , we believed that this form of absolutism ended . instead , those who had profited from the regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the property that they had stolen are carelessness . how , for example , did ukraine achieve this state of crooks ? to the extent that formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as challenged .
for children receiving atole , the risks of stunting fell by more than one-half . they remained in school longer , learn more , deserve higher rates of cognitive tests in adulthood , and were further allowed to find work in higher-paid , skilled jobs . another commonwealth , nearby , experienced the same program , except that micronutrient supplement was provided without protein . one community was provided with ceaseless access to micronutrient and protein supplement the atole . moreover , in the same way , medical workers visited mothers during the pregnancy and provided free medical services .
from day one , the coalition riven with its feuds . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he deserted the country , the coalition ’s members charged one another . in each case , ministers acted like adversaries rather than partners . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed political heirs to reclaim power . such squabbling , it seems , was a nationalist malady .
even though the us economy had been on full employment , it had rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax hike are animated not through a utopia but through despair . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike a french brexit , in which it amounts to the holiday act . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french adopted an amalgam of barricades , marches , stone turned up . they were joined by the well-organized trade unions , which helped the move to a critical mass , at least temporarily .
concerned about earlier human-rights violations , especially of women ’s rights , that she fears will multiply . what strikes me the most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts and a looming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she feels that , in acting as she did , she was loyal to her most cherished values and beliefs . and she has left no doubt that the west , in responding to the entreaty of the arab league to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . then again , she recalls everything and regrets of nothing .
as the largest trading partner of a number of asian countries , china will offer attractive trade terms to its neighbors , much like singapore did . though there is a strong case for china ’s ’s ’s charm offensive , its contours are already clear . in fact , the most prominent feature is trade . facing escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win new friends in the region . over the past six months , the america has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , embracing a us containment strategy .
london – “ shorting ” ” is a tactic well known among the financial cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with a borrowed money in anticipation of a profit when its value comes down . a speculator can “ short ” a government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later , at lower both prices and pocketing the discrepancy . for example : on june 1 , 2010 , my sense is that greece will soon be up for the greeks . i borrow at face value , up to $ 10 million from the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some of which were generated with tacit backing – and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character ” assassination by the online news media , demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework for that unruly new industries . indeed , the absence of constraints allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . furthermore , many people initiated news web sites exclusively with regard to financial merit . enjoying the implied authority of the news media , they published any potentially damaging rumor of an individual or group with means and influence , then offered to remove the story in exchange for paying an advertisement or outright cash payment .
the poison of terrorism has now tore apart the un ’s humanitarian work with the tragic bombing of its iraqi domestic mission . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world ’s most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello , one of the world ’s most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush has restated his determination to wage the war on terrorism . other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet the bombardment raises political questions that make any answers .
now russia is threatening to recognize abkhazia and south ossetia ’s independence if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . while no break from tbilisi to south ossetia has been resolved , that step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration with that georgian regions into russia ’s economic system . but they are really illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . to the extent that most of the ukrainian citizens of abkhazia and south ossetia have already received russian citizenship , their recognition of the two regions ’ sovereignty would be totally fictitious and de facto interim measures on their path toward their full annexation by russia . in order to enhance russia ’s further political clout over georgian ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without taking the trouble to ask for kosovo ’s georgian leaders ’ permission , has begun constructing a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia explicitly .
so long as trump is good for business , they seem untroubled that he represents the one biggest threat to america ’s very soul and values , as well as to its image and interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses dethered themselves in their thinking that they could control their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and appearances , he remained the best defense against communism . the sad reality of many of today ’s elites appears to have learned nothing from history and think and to act as if their interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . to be sure , trump might go a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he ’s asking the right questions .
even more worryingly , this would open the door to provisions outlawing benign , low-risk mining that is driving online advertising . impelling the eu ’s privacy crackdown is threatening to undermine all of this . online ad is giving eu citizens access to information , training material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for it outright , and the amount that they spend on it in europe is increasing rapidly . the eu ’s privacy crackdown is threatening to undermine all of this . not only will it generate the administrative burden through an extra cost and its bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most prominent online companies .
today , bloody-good times donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource-related centers for asylum-seekers every month . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must break , so that women and girls can obtain the sanitary products they are needed at an affordable price . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed out on campus , because they have no access to clean sanitary products . but , when resumption of sanitary pads and education for menstruation was delivered to girls in eight schools , attendance rose by an average of 17 % . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic .
already , he backs twice : once , in july 2012 , after abandoning his efforts , in favor of overturning the supreme council of the armed forces to reinstate an elected parliament ; and as soon as he was trying to remove a public prosecutor by forcing him into egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . but , for many of the revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack an tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for example , a new rule-regulate law has proved the revolution ’s demand since its early weeks . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and therefore politically costly – step toward breaking the impasse . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down the law , simplifying the effort meaningless .
moreover , it amounts to a betrayal of america ’s long-standing commitment to upholding a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . likewise , the trump administration has unveiled a fresh , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear-posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , as well as deploying new “ lower-yield ” nuclear devices to deliver by conducting the ascingo equivalent of nuclear-bomb power to those that had destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 . in foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson championed a revival of the monroe doctrine , a nineteenth-century declaration of assertion of us primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to exclude europe ’s asian competitors , in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s rising influence . tillerson ’s embrace of nostalgia for 1823 was not a shared south of the us border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify the gringo intervention , ” ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us .
unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such arrangements will prove futile in guiding capital flows . in other emerging markets , too , a key challenge is to ensure that all kinds of macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions such as the international monetary fund must be reformed to advance their own legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems associated with macroeconomic-policy spillovers and , in turn , in providing post-crisis insurance . policymakers in advanced and emerging-market countries alike should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than attempting to treat the features through monetary policy or capital controls .
the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle classes are largely the result of two factors : the rapid loss of whites – and blue-collar routine jobs to automation , and the shift of middle - and lower-value-added jobs to poorer countries with lower labor costs . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover from displaced labor . the result has been surpluses of labor conditions in the center – and of lower-middle-income ranges rather than dissimilar to the surpluses of early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for a time ) even as the economy widens . while the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , far fewer implementing effective countermeasures . the decline in labor bargaining power and falling real minimum wages may have also fueled income polarization , though these are probably secondary factors .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to respond to a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming turn of leadership at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 , likely succeeded mario draghi as president – provides an important opportunity to heed that call . the united states ’ targeted killing by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t exafforded the war . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
one factor is the willingness and capacity shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to make use of military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . indeed , such scenarios were unimaginable until only recently . nonetheless , a dramatic change has come to a head in europe . for decades , europe has constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region – an area where history seemed to have all but ended . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free-bearing has largely been realized .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of the many planned new infrastructure projects worldwide , which is officially considered ecologically sound , despite presenting severe environmental risks . for example , construction is almost complete at a railway line through kenya ’s renowned nairobi national park , despite public outrage over its “ incomplete and incompetent ” environmentally assessment assessment assessment .
for the ecb , this generates what it sees as a particularly grave challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns with little or no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , these measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a central role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to influence the real economy has declined . today – and for the foreseeable future – it is increasingly influenced by domestic inflation , rather than local , trend , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies are much more influential than monetary policy .
an even more dramatic rise is occurring in tokyo . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we can see the real effect of a urban heat island . in august , temperatures there had climbed 12.5 oc above the countryside , reaching a 40oc – a scorching warmth that affected not only the bottom town area , but has also covered some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the world ’s fastest-growing major cities are in asia . beijing is approximately 10 ºc hotter than a nearby rural in a daytime , and 5.5 º c warmer at night .
a rising minority began to pursue intensive physical activity not in fields or factories but in leisure settings . and , as coworkers started to engage with one another , enlightened employers came to view such recreation as a worthwhile source of physical and mental wellbeing . indeed , gyms became new sources of a community , while others moved in . the swedish brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with its consumption levels often a conspicuous risk of consumption . some people saw those changes happen and feared .
some , like the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want out of the eurozone , block the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proven particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , 32 referenda are being demanded in 18 europe-wide countries . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has proclaimed that he will hold a referendum on these proposed quotas .
from the beginning of his presidency , obama ’s ’s defense of a more liberal trade regime has been inadequate . he needs to remind americans that us imports are also good : he certainly can ask his audiences to think about jobs in ups cargo planes , freight trains , and the trucks carrying imports to the american interior . yet america ’s exports are other peoples ’ worth of imports , which is why obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . to be sure , the main dilemma is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest ; us labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility to trade . trump has repeatedly said that us exports are good : they create jobs .
it was not until the eighteenth-century 1800s that greed had become morally respectable . now it was thought of as healthily promethean to convert national wealth into money , and put it to work to spend more money , because by doing that one ’s advantage to mankind . usury ( the creation of money out of money ) was an offense against god . this had inspired the american way of life where money had always spoken up . the end of capitalism meant simply the end of the urge to listen .
rather than focusing on treatments that work , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-planned rehabilitation centers located in the harshest lands that have little , if any , done with evidence-based medicine . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments opted to imprison drug users as well . poland also chooses to treat possession of even the smallest amount of drugs as crime , as demonstrated by providing roughly 60 % of people who are convicted for drug possession in poland . addressing the use of drugs through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand ; on the contrary , usage rates have failed to drop . by driving users underground , criminalization contributes to the deepening public-health crisis .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a great , risky experiment . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . core interest rates have remained near zero for at least six years now . crisis management has yielded major market-related distortions , with certain segments of congress holding essentially no longer explainable by crucial economic data . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , not more .
in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union and many others to police major sea-lanes threatened by our country ’s pirates . nato is developing its ballistic-missile-defense capability to protect our european populations and territory against a grave and growing threat . the threats have turned out to be more global . the alliance has evolved into what is at stake in the case of an advisory organization that is both flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and , in countries throughout the world it carries tasks such as de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children .
china ’s ’s dependence on fossil-fuel subsidies has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb off . to promote the sale , buyers are exempted from sales and consumption taxes ( $ 6,000 – an astounding $ 10,000 per vehicle ) per vehicle . and , anticipating an eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are providing generous subsidies to home manufacturing . describing a shift to electric vehicles like a job murderer , trump has advocated to end federal subsidies that encourage home - and machine learning , such as a $ 7,500 federal tax credit to us consumers . and , anticipating the eventual replacement of conventional motor motor vehicles globally , the authorities are providing generous subsidies to home manufactures .
the measure can also inviting countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making it somewhat perilous . provided non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare , and be compatible with world trade organization rules . furthermore , a tax would likely have regressive distributional consequences , harming the poor countries the most . but calculating an appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . it would necessitate calculating the fiscal equivalent of the regulatory ceilings .
in addition , article 138 would authorize unified eurozone representation at the international monetary fund and the world bank . ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be using their action.the extent of that provision , which says that “ “ the european ] council shall admit to [ european ] member states , ” and that “ only [ european ] member states … have taken a part in voting ” on a large scale . the group might then extend cooperation beyond three further policy areas : the group might then extend cooperation beyond the eu . eurozone countries , together with others , willing and able to join the euro in the future ( the eu plus ” in the eurozone ) , might simply decide to use a legally binding means already available for enhanced cooperation .
for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that circumcision is a part of a muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to a contravention [ of ] religious liberty . and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , has warned that prohibition would effectively transform judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” ” ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject in only six years , at least in prison . complicating matters further , the two sides are basing their arguments on human rights . for example , several ban ’s supporters have argued that female circumcision violates article 5 of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one is subject to torture or to cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” gunnarsdóttir embraces that “ everyone has a right to believe in what they wish , ” but she insists that “ children ’s rights come above a right . ”
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . to be sure , entering any adversary ’s network , as well as breaking attacks , poses the danger of escalation . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classical devices of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial , as they assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to entanglement and of norms . “ persistent engagement ” may , however , have helped deterrence in just such difficult cases .
nevertheless , more will be needed to restore financial stability , such as enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s aggregate firepower . moreover , if the eu wants to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because without growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be resolved . confirmation of a more stringent and more rigorous stability pact is also the imperative of achieving greater integration . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-run competitiveness , ultimately deciding on the value-added issue of goods and services . here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among eurozone member states .
shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , real-estate developers , and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . the us financial stability board estimated that total global shadow-banking assets amounted to $ 67 trillion in 2011 , with america ’s $ 23 trillion accounting for $ 22 trillion , the eurozone as a whole , $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom $ 9 trillion . in 2007 , the amount of shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . ultimately , it is financed via retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital . the chinese shadow banking sector totals only around $ 2.2 trillion , with the federal reserve bank reaching only around $ 2.2 trillion .
clearly , there is little that america can do much to resolve the conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but several factors worth bearing : the rise of a number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent opponents ; and major political differences between a centrist us president and a congress that has dominated more than ever with extreme ideas . but obama himself bears a large part of the blame , at least of all . back in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement to the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome .
china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without a labor-cost differential . but it can be exceedingly good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful rebalance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and explores the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in infrastructure and skills . in the future , however , this kind of trade is likely to become much less important . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage has been diminishing rapidly . like economists like mit ’s david autor report the impact of this in the developed world , it is possible that both workers and jobs can be both bad for some or all of them .
beijing – just how rapid is china ’s population aging , and what does a lower share of working-age people mean for the country ’s ’s ’s economic development ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china stem from the country ’s potential total fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – essentially unchanged for 20 years . but the population-based survey data published by the tfr ’s national bureau of statistics suggest that the tfr has , on average , been consistently lower than 1.5 for many years , with the united nations ’ just-published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s gdp and 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low birth countries . a prolonged period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging and working-age population growth is slowing . can it – and should – be doing anything , especially the country ’s “ single baby ” policy , to slow this trend ?
until the currency crashes in the 1990s , emerging-market and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the inflation rate . but they repeatedly missed their targets for targets . many then turned to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss these targets even more often than advanced countries do . the problem with these approaches to a monetary-policy targeting is that , while a particular numerical target may be rational when it is specified , subsequent , unexpected developments often make the target hard to live with .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt processes as fast as possible , thereby keeping other sovereigns from turning creditors through debt mutualization . after all , if you lend to a friend , she will no longer be a friend . unless this wisdom is heeded , she will be impossible to hold europe together . in fact , the dangerous dangers now confronting europe as a consequence of socializing indebtedness are far greater than those posed by a mere potential financial crisis . if europe ’s national governments want to help one another in the crisis , they should provide unilaterally humanitarian assistance , without conditionality and without redemption .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affect hungarians now living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european model for rejecting hungarian democracy ; yet , until recently , trump welcomed him to the white house describing him as an “ respect all over europe . ” trump and his advisers evidently have learned a good deal from orbán on racist immigration policies and on how to tear down a democracy . they are n’t making america great , or even just a good , policy ; they ’re making it hungarian . trump ’s own republican party is using a similar tactic .
while orbán has invoked economic pressure to force the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ hostile of the people ” and threatened libel acts against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has destroyed hungary ’s judicial independence and thoroughly politicized the us administration . trump does much the same , with the result that america ’s administration now loses around 94 % of its legislative court cases . by flapping us administrative agencies , beginning in trump ’s capture of the us department of justice , and committing itself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump now stands far along his quest to destroy the rule of law in america . at the same time , trump has purge some 17,000 public officials by firing up american legislators , shutting down a government , freezing down payment , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate on how to formulate and implement policies .
to decide not to challenge these data , folta persists , and instead to “ publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all further data and putting the claims of millions more dry germans , does not make a brilliant job . ” but it is far from clear from ayyadurai ’s article using the data , without validation of the model . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work. “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to predict the location of munich , and the program said that it was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , that does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off florida . ” instead , it means changing one ’s error , in your program , assumptions , or input data – all of which are testable .
yet , by the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not consider creating a joint , bank-troubled fund . instead , they settled for a package of national measures designed to stabilize national banking systems , one by another . experience has shown that only an acute crisis can force europe ’s leaders to act collectively in a concerted effort . in other words , europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem . the sum of its headline liabilities has been impressive , amounting to more than 20 % of gdp .
the two parties fought again in 1971 , even though kashmir was not the focus . the two parties fought back to surrender , and east pakistan became an independent state of bangladesh . then another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted in 1999 , after pakistan dispatched soldiers into kargil ’s indian-controlled district . a 17-day war was erupting in recent years , but with the falklands status quo has prevailed . after the independence of the taliban west pakistan against the bengali east pakistan ’s bengali freedom fighters fueled a wave of eastern refugees , india began nurturing the rebel groups there .
moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and a determination of drug sensitivity . whereas pandemics appear suddenly , proliferation has spread rapidly , raising immense fears of an imminent threat , tb has continued to spread slowly but consistently over tens of thousands , patiently waiting patiently for new opportunities . indeed , roughly 15 million people continue to suffer from co-infections of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most tb cases . treating tb requires only about three drugs that were administered in at least six months . with the tb emergence in the 1980 ’s for hiv that compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , and is the number-one hiv-infected killer .
the drawbacks of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further do not end . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution that may have signaled the beginning of a process of political unification . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for a western defense treaty . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france thwarted any attempt to pool europe ’s armed forces . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution that may have marked the beginning of a process of political unification .
they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the banks ( at least for a while ) – and a strong interest in protecting its reputation . that will not be easy , not least because of another new operating burden put on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . the limits of inflation-targeting are now apparent . central banks now must reconcile the imperative to preserve price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether it is legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerability . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies bearing the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ autonomy , and political conflict – all might affect the behavior of financial intermediaries , by encouraging them to assume greater risk .
compared to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a vanishingly small number of large , productive firms . if the small , unproductive firms closed , and the larger , more productive firms hire their workers , total output and well-being would rise . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should be able to deliver a better product at less than a price , with delegating workers to higher-wage levels . so , why is n’t this happening routinely in the developing world ? by standard economic reasoning , this is actually inefficient .
given the apparent significance of the post in recent years , the choice of mr. zhu ’s replacement may prove to be even more consequential than that of president jiang zemin ’s departure from the center stage . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was the appointment of zhu rongji ( the pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . even before he became premier , sir zhu , as the chairman of the people ’s central bank of china came to be known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990 ’s and mastermind of its successful battle against inflation . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , that tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric , a man celebrated for his candor in his global sophistication and his insistence on performance . as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has shifted to president jiang zemin ’s successor .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as an economic superpower stems partly from the successful demutualizing of their stock exchanges . but , in part , because a few african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crunch , more investors focus on business opportunities there . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , with their combined market capitalization ballooned from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion by the end of 2009 , as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchange . in fact , by 2050 , the combined gdp of the top 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but less than china or india ) .
establishing national , national , and global standards is not an easy task , but is entirely necessary . in fact , trained physicians should not be driven by taxicabs . some countries do suffer when skilled workers emigrate . • accelerate eligibility for residency rights and citizenship . but failure to develop mechanisms to enable migrants to make use of their abilities tends to hurt even more .
its grand coalition of the old french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as occurred in the us and the uk . fillon , for his part , can likely muster the same level of support , and may even skim votes from le pen , given that around 8 % of the primary ’s voters were described as her national front ’s backers . heading into the electoral campaign , fillon may be running on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he hinted that he favors forming a eurozone government . in contrast to trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency that informs some one-quarter of voters . what ’s the ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more internationally conservative fold .
the state-owned media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as the guilt parties behind adamowicz ’s assassinations will only undermine the pis . polish politicians have repeatedly demonstrated its impulsiveness . polish generations of poles have participated in poland ’s charities ’s fundraising drives . he pursues power without considering the implications of his actions . for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope .
new york – the latest fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you next to nothing . in florida , the tomato pickers earn , on that average , just $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . but what did the tomato slice on this burger cost the worker the worker who received it ? almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , the cost may be shockingly high . in florida , the tomato pickers earn , on average , just $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
whatever the new us administration emerges as part of its ambitious effort to “ make the china dream ” come true . when xi first made his slogan after chosen as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible but nonetheless generic terms : “ china ’s people dream of life that life is the same good life , not that of all other people around the world . ” china ’s increasingly zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not showing enough loyalty and respectability to the new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; the “ china dream ” replaced a “ china model ” in an official political branding . sadly , china ’s propagandists who double as censors have a perverse capacity to discredit anything they attempt to brand . xi had said little about the “ china dream ” since , and his silence had caused great trouble .
in fact , they can not , because a genetic experimentation on humans is impossible . even in animals , whose genes are more readily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , the miniscule fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait . fruits fly genes are surprisingly similar to our own -- as it is to precisely those of most other entities . even many features of their behavior resemble that of the us itself , which resembles that of others . instead , a wide variety of genes influences , say , each characteristic .
gone are the days when strong esg performance was a nice bonus for investors . environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating , and corruption is rampant , with cash flowing into cambodia ’s casinos , bank of casinos , and the real-estate market . investment decisions at emerging-market funds thus increasingly precede rigorous esg screenings , screenings , which , after just 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , seem to have little chance of being rolled over . cambodia is currently abdicating on its natural resources – including timber , grisly , and sand , respectively , for private gain . indeed , pension trustees and fund managers now maintain that firms in which they invest in operate in an ethical , transparent way that limits risk .
while the british were particularly open about the nationalistic nature of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their own domestic concerns . simply put , talk of an “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines and does not ring a step forward . while the british have been particularly open about the nationalistic nature of their support for european integration , other eu members have been no less mindful of their domestic concerns . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic ” view that the eu was only insofar as it delivered the practical advantages of peace and prosperity to britain . in the wake of world war ii , europeans had aligned themselves with domestic interests .
quite a few in europe redefine the eu as an instrument for holding its own back vis-à-vis the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar , and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is ‘ weak ’ . ” in terms of core values , there is such a thing as the west . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the values of the enlightenment and in the constitution of liberty . america has found a new “ empire of evil ” in the “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has discovered a new adversary that helps it integrate in the united states .
in that case , tusk would most likely return to the polish domestic politics , where his ninth victory against the pis would be the sanction kaczyński deserves . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for is some of the government ’s positions in poland . he is mere kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in his attempt to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat that the pis faces . perhaps he will replace the highly criticized polish foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . the most pis , for his part , may hope for is the fact that certain eu coalition of countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) proposes yet another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states will elect to prevent escalation of the conflict with poland .
renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because does it open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . this time , however , it is hard to see a way out that offer a second referendum . so the problem lies with iranians and need to resolve it . now the eu is in the irish stew .
yet experiences around the world suggest that this is a risky outlook , too . the problems are not limited to america ’s , either . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were bank sound , the process of deleveraging and a associated loss of wealth means that , more likely than not , the us economy will be weak . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , larger bank losses .
for now , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu , as well as the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks are most likely to emancipate them . this would be a wise choice , as well as a potential political and economic means of influence . they are also eager to develop more enmeshed domestic and european foreign policies that take into account the actions and potential contributions of non-state actors . still , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force for the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view its own military strength as an army power . german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are much more potent than at the expense of fighting violence , the search for further development of soft-power instruments , including digital diplomacy .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity over the decade to come , they will need to find ways to prevent current economic activity from rising an already unsustainable fiscal burden of greek debt . for that to happen , portugal must come to be viewed as a precious treadmill to succeed wisely . the mediterranean region ’s uniquely , breathtaking natural capital is one of its greatest assets , the reason that more than 200 million tourists flock to the region each year , feed the region ’s economies . over-exploitation of resources or even fails to manage them prudently , inexorably saps the region ’s economic strengths . to be sure , mediterranean countries often can fill part of the gap through global trade , as long as they can now pay the needed imports .
ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to university years , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . she favors engagement policy and the six-party talks in order to resolve the nuclear distress . park ’s success will ultimately depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along these lines . ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school age to university in 2011 , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . but she must make formal progress on practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s toughest problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s own nuclear-weapons program .
and adjustment must be wedded to a growth strategy . and that growth requires higher levels of public investment in infrastructure and human capital . income will grow consistently only as long as the tax base – that is , the economy as a whole – grows . a fiscal compact like the one approved recently is helpful in anchoring expectations about future adjustment , but only when the new system is flexible enough to be too credible . up-gradualism must be the name of this game .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation will generate a sufficient increase in private-sector confidence that returns in spending by households and firms are more than offset by lower spending by governments . more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation would generate enough growth in private-sector confidence that returns on spending by households and firms would more than offset lower spending by governments . at the same time , the imf believes that current fiscal plans will impede us economic growth . for one thing , the oecd , the cautions governments not to consolidate too fast in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trade partners want america to grow and buy more of its exports .
this is one reason why postcommunist societies fail to demonstrate any nobility or disinterestedness that seriously clash with the west . i admit that i view the legacy of communism with more skepticism . indeed , totalitarian pressure generated exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious belief bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; rather , it was their daily immersion in falsehoods , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel who defended their high values with a reference to , and , in the language , lay humanism .
at the same time , the world bank ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s poorest citizens are at odds . when asked nearly ten million people around the world to list their priorities , the un emphasized better education and health care , fewer restrictions on corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . and yet , under kim , the bank propagated the simplistic idea that the fossil-fuel industry always harnesses the “ harm of fossil fuels , ” coal must be banned , and “ climate aids ” is a solution . clearly , the evidence shows that there is a far more efficient nature of direct policies . under kim , the bank has propagated the simplistic idea that the fossil-fuel industry always harnesses the “ harm of fossil fuels , ” it must be banned by coal , and “ climate assistance ” is a solution .
trump carries on about the paris accord ’s initial bias in its favor , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s ’s per capita emissions amount to 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of america ’s level . trump also bemoans america ’s donations to the green climate fund ( and rosneft at the name , for some reason ) . he complains that the us has already yielded more than $ 1 billion without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion amounts to a $ 3.08 per american . consider the most significant figures for the year 2014 come from the international energy agency ’s 2016 report of energy prices . the world ’s co2 emissions from the us energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion amounts to $ 7.2 billion per person at the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s emissions grew almost four times that level , at 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for $ 320 million people ) .
and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is difficult for an organization to operate . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” ” un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . as one wag put it , “ we met the un and are us ! ” what hard power the un has to ask and borrow from member states . true , un secretary general ban ki moon may make the speeches , convening meetings , and proposing actions , but his role is often more secretary of state than commonly .
alternatively , it will appear that no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining a key restraint that prevents both sides from trying to achieve a military solution in the near term . perhaps for this reason , there has been much talk of a meeting in astana among the presidents of russia and france , the american foreign minister , and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . a meeting of presidents is , after all , the ultimate negotiating forum and must lead to a genuine , sustainable success . that prospect holds both huge opportunities and grave risks . there is every reason that no such meeting has occurred in the g20 years in the conflict .
governments in the americas and europe are finding themselves at a rough , uncharted waters . true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and the all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly while ignoring the recently elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans dither from starvation , the health-care system has broken down , and that violence and contagious disease are now practically out of control . if the issue were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of the american nations ’ democratic charter ( oas ) , convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro , solutions that were measured in a matter of months or years might be considered . but venezuela is hardly alone in facing a political dilemma ; it is the humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions .
but the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he will open facebook ’s listing account to receive and respond to the public ’s question . chief minister of western bengal mamata banerjee is running a popular , broad-reading web site that traditional media outlets mine mine daily . similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older , rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook accounts as well . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale acceptance of twitter , modi of the commonwealth states comprising the region ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized followers , prominent indian politicians from any party have leapt in .
related to this is the fact that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the damaging effects of those financial speculations boosted by globalization . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , the world ’s poor and developing countries must be allowed some means to protect their new industries . so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrolled force of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . so the world needs , within its regions , to facilitate integration based on popular economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , a shared rule of law , and much of the common willingness to redress the rules of the game in the region as a whole . only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political basis for integration .
when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with arms paid for with borrowed money . when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with arms paid for with borrowed money . because that money had clearly benefited mubarak but not its people , was it supposed to be mubarak , rather than his victims , who are held responsible ? the sort of mubarak regime ran for many years . is it fair to expect egyptians to continue paying for their previous levels of repression and impoverishment at the behest of mubarak and his henchmen ?
one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that western germany would forego the failure of its experiment before embarking on it . at a more depreciated real wage rate , the us would simply have faster wage inflation . even that is dreaming since , in the face of high unemployment , the east german wage increase has been raised substantially every year , relative to west germany . claims about alternative strategies thus need to be set quite somewhat lower by the standards of view , say , a starting exchange rate that might decide to make eastern germany a low-wage country . perhaps those are en vogue in korea as it thinks of possible reunification , but even there will be a hard way to realization when the time comes .
new businesses in the service sector – some 3.6 million of which began just last year – are generating incremental employment , thanks partly to a new , streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market-access and financing to smaller firms . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build upon these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public-sector investment is strong enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure .
it would have been unimaginable that nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , had poland remained mired in its entire constitutional crisis , with a government disregarding the rule of law and the views of a respected international body . but it is also necessary that the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism for isolating the rule of law within the union . hungarians and poles must recall that russian president vladimir putin is actively trying to divide and weaken the eu and nato . the eu has mechanisms for regulating economic policies , safeguarding the environment , and policing the single market . if europe is confronting its aggression from the kremlin , it is essential that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles .
many fear , with good reason , that fossil-fuel concerns will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but this risk is not a sufficient justification for abandoning or suppressing research on solar geoengineering . the vast majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , has also encouraged much stronger action to reduce emissions . still , it has ’s very likely that large fossil-fuel companies – from a multinational energy company to coal-dependent regions – will end up using geoengineering to fight emissions restrictions . but the vast majority of these researchers are not actually driven by such concerns .
to achieve that , the american would have to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order , much like it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago , left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism . national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to project power around the world . if a great power forgets that or loses its ability to act accordingly , it starts to decline . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of unilateralism .
the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation , will feature barkindo , as well as numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders – an ideal opportunity to kick-start such a process . working with other interested parties , sustainable-and mere transition campaigners can also achieve something more : permitting carbon power to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced just the warped oil-fueled growth slowdown in the twentieth century . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support national agendas for development and diversification . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry must get on board . the industrialized economies , for their part , must do more to support african oil-producing industries , making sure that the adverse effect on their oil output is mitigated .
economic development in the gaza strip was restricted under egyptian rule , and the region bore the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing the fighting in the southern state of compulsory palestine to become israel as soon as possible . the 1967 war placed all of palestine ( as in sinai and the golan heights ) under israeli military occupation . but , though one-third of gaza ’s population comprised refugees , living under difficult conditions in scores of refugee camps , and depended largely on work in israel . yet , while one-third of the west bank went to the palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population were refugees , many owned their land , and a wide variety of jobs were created . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor was dependent on un relief works , which had constructed and maintained local refugee camps .
after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly because “ i propose writing that history . ” when the financial crisis erupted , the same thought may have crossed into texas paulson ’s mind , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , the chairman of the federal reserve bank and chairman of the new york fed , respectively . all three of the published lengthy memoirs explain why they did and did poorly , to do so and did not , inevitably , with a degree of self-justifying justification in every instance . a second draft of history is often written by keynesians themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him graciously because “ i propose writing ” that history is .
furthermore , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – replacing the old , inefficient growth-enhancing sources of growth with the new , more dynamic ones , expedited this process . the goal was not to address the challenges they faced directly , but rather to induce new , more efficient activities to help convert their debt into assets and maximize the application of an economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asian economies embraced the process of the kind of creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby an economy was continually revolutionized from within . for example , by bringing down china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms in the 1980s , china ’s corporate sector spurred growth partly by the non-agricultural sector , a policy directed toward stimulating township and village enterprises ( tves ) . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debts and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) of chronic loss-making and over-property-rights , respectively – by implementing the kind of institutional reforms that stimulated growth in a more dynamic sector , thereby offsetting soes ’ declining return on capital .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and talk of kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation barely stirred up a flicker of interest despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on the united nations membership . that seeming double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west has embraced kosovo for the most part in its effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . likewise , much of the world is protesting on behalf of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . that neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove a dangerous act . taiwan , by contrast , does not capture our attention because it is stable and flourishing economically .
many are now eagerly offering their views to whether the uk should look anew at the “ norway model ” of relations with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . a second change for the better , i hope , has been less controversial : declining powers bestowed in the uk on unelected special aides , or on spads , who have become the dominant figures in all the government departments . during my 17-month experience as cabinet secretary , i became convinced that spads ’ excessive power , together with a haughty approach to undermining the uk ’s excellent civil service as well as elected and appointed ministers . whatever the options , it now seems clear that britain needs a politics that can command broad and genuine support . may ’s two leading spads , peter hill , and nick timothy geithner have taken that danger to a alarming level .
an encouraging trend is that the methods used to make nanomaterials often turn into “ greener ” as they shift from laboratory to industrial production . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are now well known to present human health risks . while attempting to stave off the development of nanomal-inspired technology would be almost as irresponsible as it is untrustworthy , responsible for developing such technologies demands vigilance and a social commitment . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve in this way without the risks to our health and the environment . setting aside questions of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or more comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities .
today , nearly 4.5 billion people have internet access ; around one in three internet users is below the age of 18 . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to make child sex trafficking even more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to combat this appalling crime . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a smartphone at a rate of high-speed internet connectivity to enter a business . as a result , the unregulated online world has proven to be fertile ground for reaping vast returns from malaria-trafficking deaths . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual earnings of up to $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced labor exploitation .
it should come as no surprise that the euro has started to slide against the us dollar , contemplating some differences in america 's economic performance between america and europe . and it should not come as a surprise that markets have tested european political leaders ' willingness to stay calm where monetary matters are concerned . the recent us intervention , and aid from america and japan , has shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident of its success . for this reason , we all owe them to it . the euro has experienced a hard but promising start .
people used to learn that it pays to buy dips and were n’t being weaned off from their habit until it stopped paying . now that internet fever has abated one ’s book , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting our own . what should now be clear is that the so-called fundamentals – which supposedly determines stock prices – are not independently given . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle thus far brings to questions about prevailing economic theories about financial markets . but this view is as much a bit of truth as the earlier twentieth-century insight that the great boom would have existed permanently because the internet economy had created new fundamentals .
palo alto – since the advent of the science of sixth-century toxicology in the sixth-century century , its guiding principle has been that the “ dose makes the poison . ” the right dose of aspirin may turn out to be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be lethal . it is a rule that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide many billions every day . the principle even applies to foods : large sums of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure .
the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . in view of libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to move from dictatorship to democracy with a weak set of institutions and a strong tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully pass more complicated tests – offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . cyrenaica is the qaddafi-free , tripolitania does not , and fezzan did not fully unite in a revolution .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s ’s proposals might entail too big a stimulus . they suggest tax cuts equivalent to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-term public debts , all of which the ecb should buy . but they also highlight a crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has submitted qe as an pure tool of monetary policy that sustains economic growth in the face of needed – and desirable – fiscal consolidation . they argue that the ecb ’s quantitative easing , alone with little fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective .
and the tone of the political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier . confrontations and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even as the american government ’s legal capacity to service its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s so much ideological rigidity . standard & poor ’s has received some justifiable criticism for an analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there has been little economic news that might explain this move ’s timing . never mind that eye-popping growth projections made by representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , look wholly implausible ; these projections matter politically , because , without them , the full sting of ryong-proposed medicare cuts will become readily apparent . but s & p ’s assessment of the policy situation is on target : generating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the government , the tea party has shown that it is willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and ensure significantly slower growth .
on trade , trump and xi together subscribe to a 100-day plan for discussions about reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . the understanding between xi and trump reflected a sobering acknowledgement of the domestic as well as international risks that their countries are confronting . moreover , america ’s acceptance of china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement , by developing the us-china comprehensive dialogue , has consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and cybersecurity , and social issues . both seem to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable it to focus on their respective challenges . for his part , trump has embraced xi ’s invitation to visit china soon .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( through , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not take priority over a strategy to address the sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy must center on the path of rapid federalism . the uae and qatar have already instituted a compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan for its footsteps through reintroducing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni arab states ( and iran ) . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it most likely would not have ended up being a failed state .
the left ’s yearning for peace is seen as being naive , when not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either case an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the left ’s inability to recognize that israeli elections are not a strictly political matter ; they are an expression of an ongoing kernel of kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for apprehension and complexes from a broad array of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , the most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people vote through memory , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . the israeli far left ’s desire for peace is perceived as naive when not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either case an un-pardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) .
furthermore , among the new jobs that will be created will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally prospered . yet there is little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading of their skills to take advantage of the emerging and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . the success of women in e-commerce attests to the strength of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , the benefits of individual women , their communities , and societies , as well as the global economy . according to mgi research , more than 100 million jobs – over the next 10-15 years – could be created as health-care and education needs grow . to be sure , it remains far from clear how automation will affect women ’s employment .
russia conquered muslim territories in volga-ural region , the caucasus , and central asia , brutally suppressed any opposition . russia ’s links with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and rooted in a long tradition of tolerance . until putin ’s 1800s , sedentary muslim elites rallied to the imperial aristocracy , just as he absorbed national communist elites in the 20th century . with only a few short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial rule failed to support orthodox evangelism . nevertheless , after loyalty was assured , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy .
hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of largely peaceful demonstrations ( the occasional episodes of violence attracted a disproportionate amount of media attention ) . the absence of any plan that can elicit different protest groups and hong kong ’s government has become a source of growing concern . such a scheme would have to do with at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government , in this case ) need to recommit to “ one country , two systems ” framework . the triggers were the proposed extradition law , which many feared will extend the mainland ’s reach to hong kong ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s judicial system .
in order to address that distortion head on and provide clarity about the allocation of funds , the egf should shift its scarce funds toward two bright active labor market programs : wages and mobility . a back-of-the-envelope mobility allowance could offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross pay in the prior labor market , or four months ’ paid out to a cross-border movement . the very simplicity of such a scheme is likely to ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the very simplicity of such a focused approach is likely to ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . wage insurance might offer some workers , whose pay was cut after the displacement replacement of up to two years amounting to about half the disparity between old and new wages .
asia ’s gdp stood at 28 % ( after including japan ) . but kharas ’s projections indicate that asia will account for two-thirds of the global middle class by 2030 . in other words , it will discontinue not just the west , but even other emerging regions . to be sure , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect . this , in turn , is the true business opportunity .
populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , are gaining electoral traction . some , such as france ’s national front , oppose their countries ’ eu membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . some , like france ’s national front , oppose their countries ’ eu membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . still , the challenge that these new parties pose for europe could prove to be exceedingly disruptive . a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with the financial and political turmoil within greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration – particularly after its laborious efforts made to cling to , and with it , the european dream .
european governments are only now grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their own over-representation in a set of multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines , rather than enhances , the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers to isolate the arrangements . but , while negotiating with the eu is taking place on how much europe should retreat from its historic domination of a multilateral body , there is little vision beyond this . taken together , all of these flaws have cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim that it is at the forefront of the debate over an essential reshaping of global economic governance . indeed , at a time when europeans think about reforming global governance , they limit themselves to numbers of seats and to voting weights in international bodies . europe ’s governments are repeating the mantra of effective multilateralism , with ” but no comprehensive strategy to translating that into a coherent policy .
são paulo – a decades-old , legal fight between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s ’s economic policies in the 1980s and 1990s is approaching . if the court approves the deal , the settlement would insert billions of reals into the pockets of savers . but , more than a tentative payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly unending war on hyperinflation . throughout the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency . in december , attorneys representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with an application to ratify the settlement reached with the banks .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent as the main industrial sector . such barriers have had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress . but this has not translated into greater state control over finances . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , it is women who borrow 13 % fewer farm--related money than men do . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and the agency ’s limitations and mobility under the agency and its conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the modi government ’s supporters tout the slew of new , repressive legislation – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , a muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” alongside an expression of its resoluteness . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t retain its quest for war .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have some kind of microeconomic effect , which has garnered little attention : lowering capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which cause a relative decline in demand for labor . one solution is to channel part of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , for every $ 100 of incremental liquidity , the us could use up to $ 60 for asset purchases and the remainder to give firms a marginal job-creation subsidy that might be especially potent in economies with flexible labor markets that enable short-term hiring . even if an employer-provided subsidy was offered just for , say , one year , us firms would be tempted to use more labor during this period . this very likely exacerbates the problem of unemployment ; it certainly does not alleviate it .
the seed treaty is carving out the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth , as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is over-wrought , confusing , and comprehensive – in short , unimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor . what is clear is that the lessons of countries that have implemented the treaty were not especially positive unless these countries had a high degree of tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and evolution in the name of lofty aspirations . it also resonates with the flagrantly non-scientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to a cbd . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol to its responsibility and redress to the protocol of cartagena , yet another anti-genetic-engineering shout that accomplishes little except for frightening potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology .
“ there is , ” he wrote in the echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ the sort of situation of capitalistically disorganized economies in which superior cultures are not victorious but rather loses in an existential struggle with the rentier . ” in the center – beleaguered by the counter-reactions of both the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw goods for an economic opening , or that of globalization as wholly beneficial . for much of the post-1945 era , those divisions disappeared as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international right moved to fascism , the left to communism – that democratic politics became paralyzed . instead of some part splits between left and right , there was thus a triple divide , between the anti-globalization conservatives , the pro-globalization liberals , and the re-distributionist leftists . when the extremes of the political spectrum became mushroomed , as they did during the interwar period – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed .
the materials contained in that book that i brought to power in china and decided to make public , consists of hundreds of documents , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings that eminent persons ’s leaders deliberated on how to manage tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes about crucial telephone conversations between leaders ; and classified reporting from security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and the military . taken together , these documents provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . to be sure , the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is the proverbial . but the veil that exists over how omnipotent party makes important decisions is lifted somewhat , because a volume of uniquely lodged materials on the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 are made this month . as eyewitness and participant in the tiananmen square events , and , as someone with access to a historical archive , i sensed the my duty to publicize this record of decisions that lay behind what was happening .
in the 1880 ’s , for example , slovakia , like other former communist states , was a dreary , oppressive , joyless place where mediocre party hacks set the tone , allowing creativity to be stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were banned by recordings of capitalist decadence . rock and roll was perceived as an noxious form of capitalist decadence . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other east european countries , where young rock hacks were treasured , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president . a native rock band named space-universe plastic people , performing in english , was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized disturbance of peace . ”
there is , of course , an appealing logic to saying that governments should be required to balance their budgets just as those of the rest of us ; unfortunately , that is no longer so simple . governments typically have myriad ongoing expenditures related to basic services , such as national defense , infrastructure projects , educational resources , and health care , not to mention pensioners . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly understate the massive adjustment costs of a self-made “ sudden stop ” in the form of debt finance . such a cost is precisely why impecunious countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement at a time when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows suddenly dried up . in fact , no government can simply withdraw from these responsibilities overnight .
while this perception may be persuaded at first sight , it ultimately relies on generalizations that reveal more about its proponents than about the actual reality on the ground . take the iraq venture , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the mayhem . president hosni mubarak of egypt maintains that shiites are “ invariably loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ shi’ite ” rise and the resulting “ sunni divide ” ” are supposedly creating an ever-widening divide within the region . ironically , this perception is driving israel to some extent implausible partners .
as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from around 90 % today . worse still , the consultancy timber mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . firms can not keep up with the production of oil , gas , and internal combustion engines , while gradually shifting to cleaner technology ; they need a clean break . to complete the shift away from fossil-fuel subsidies will require drilling to the heart of the global economy . it does n’t help that , in china , financial institutions funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year .
the agenda will focus on ending the conflict , devoid of any endless debate about the theoretical or doctrinaire issues . moreover , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have grown stronger , owing to the modernization of its military facilities and doctrine , increases in troop levels , and improved training . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc might make impossible demands on its government , today its environment favors the state over which the rebels force out of their demands realistic . as a result , an armed conflict has become increasingly expensive to the insurgents . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at the meetings in norway and cuba .
the most striking item that can be said of trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . the us administration has imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small in size relative to the size of the us economy . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains untouched , as it deals with china and other major us partners on trade . yes , this is a volatile data series because it heats up and falls with the usual course on events . but it is also another area where obama set the bar high during his two terms .
all of these books are variants of the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 that japan came across after defeating the tsar ’s army in 1905 . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories were passed down on as well . but southeast asians , of course , are not immune from this kind of nonsense either . the chinese have chosen up with many modern western notions of japan . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ “ jews dominate the world ” by proxy .
it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate the bailouts , knowing that it is they who will bailing out bailing out the country . germany will oppose anything that boils down to european political integration . those running a strong-arm european union-financing mechanism will have to be firmly liable . in doing so , they will have to answer for the strong european parliament .
new york – striving to revive the world economy while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? if we are to have poor measures , what we are willing to do ( say , increase gdp ) may actually contribute to a worsening in standard of living . we may as well be facing the false choices that we see trade-offs between exit and our environment that do not exist . a better measure of economic performance , on the other hand , may show that the steps that we are taking to improve our environment are sound for our economies . in our performance-oriented world , measuring issues have taken on increasingly significant significance : what we measure affects what we do .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? ” we learn in introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . banknotes is only pieces of paper with the number that can be attached to them . but , then , why accept that ? how can i know that i can trust that it is worth what it says that it is worth ?
to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . at times , however , it is necessary to kill even sacred cows . when it first appeared in 1985 , the schengen region included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . eu membership has since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four out of those left behind ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity , and to its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now .
at the same time , he realizes that big business is crucially important to russia ’s modernization . there is no question that putin now seems to behave like a peacemaker . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity and abandon politics to him . but the issue will not go away , either . he has no interest in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides .
though the world ’s attention nowadays is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can no longer be ignored . the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will produce an opening to populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically just as metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . in addition , europe ’s external environment has become increasingly dangerous . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars in the streets of new york pose a threat to america ’s national security . should he awaken one morning and decide to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could get extremely ugly , very fast .
indeed , the greater competitive pressures may increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . in the process , there is a trade-off between competition and stability . it can also erode the charter ’s value of institutions . the outcome will have more incentives to assume the risks posed by risk . a mid-size bank and a limited liability may not have much to lose , and will it typically pursue a tendency , exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies .
most of them live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines , which are university-available in better-off countries . this is one reason why an emerging child born in a high-income country is about 18 times less likely than a child born in a lower-income country to die before reaching an age of five . yet , sad as a child still die every 20 seconds from preventable diseases like pneumonia , a vaccine that can still be preventable . fortunately , the world has come to take such action . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox and dramatically cut child deaths and diseases associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus .
and , because the chilean believes that everyone operates according to his particular definitions of right and wrong , he can not comprehend that some else may see things differently . rather than admit to breaking the rules , they lie in reconciling inconsistency . to childish ’s mind , he is not wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . as the pioneering child psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they focus naturally on its own needs and do not ponder the rules . a child might snatch another child ’s toy , crack it down , and then deny has done so .
its greatest disequilibrium is its inability of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where tensions between china are just stunning . if your products can n’t get to the global economy , you ca n’t conquer it . it ’s that difference , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . with so much at stake , what can india do to close the gap ? over the last five years , china has multiplied its rail system five-fold .
today , there are two kinds of populists : exploitative and enlightened . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor while unaccountable social-media , “ fake news , ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many , they , no less than easily swayed by voters , need to be scrutinized . the question is whether the brand of politics that imperils liberal democracy may also be reformulated in order to save it . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians make willing decay of those who feel ignored .
a recent feature that stands out in this era of historically slow productivity growth has been weak demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that in this case , when it comes to historically slow productivity growth , weak demand is critical . across industries , sluggish demand recovery in the wake of the financial crisis has been key to keeping investment back on track . the crisis has heightened uncertainty about the future course of the pace of consumer and investment . for example , last year ’s mgi survey found that 47 % of companies increasing their investment budgets did so as a result of increased demand or demand-side expectations .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exception ” away from routine rules of the market economy , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . that view , disperated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to see how markets operate . they view economics as an ideological battleground , where any opinions can be entertained without being confronted in their logic , much less with the facts . the french have no interest in articulating their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a crucial role to play in riding steering markets to defend “ a higher ” their rise from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . still , the facts have been slammed on hard times .
avoiding that outcome will require us political leaders to constrain the growth in entitlement spending and to bolster support for middle-income individuals . while social security and medicare remain important in ensuring well-being in retirement , their roles must be updated to take care of today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , social welfare requires a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with the more affluent seniors seeing less of an increase in benefits over time . between now and 2040 , us health-care and welfare already consumes half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth of gdp in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp imply more than doubling by 2040 . with no change in course , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted in the 2030s .
new york – president george w. bush was right to call pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections a victory for [ its ] people . millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . yet , even as he spoken of those words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subverting the will of pakistan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s people by attempting to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up the election ’s biggest loser , general president pervez musharraf . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking pakistan ’s implosion for the sake of his own legacy .
indeed , three of five of five hiv-positive people still receive antiretroviral therapies . it mutates rapidly within the individual and among their geographic location , establish latent pools within the cells that enable them to emerge and replicate them months or even years later . in addition , long-term treatment is not the same as a remedy , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever equated the vaccine ’s preventive power . yet hiv is a extraordinarily complex virus ; in some parts of the world , it is directly blends . it evades the immune system , which is why the body ’s natural capacity to fight or establish limits on combat it .
as a result of this argument , academic scientists should either publish their research openly or go out of college before pursuing commercial interests . likewise , the universities that employ them should abandon their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill . yet it is helpful to remember that the college has been charged for subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial , yet what in the past originally looked to a lot like a conflict of interest often later came to seem like a confluence of purposes . for example , during the late-19 th century as us universities started taking the research to heart of their academic mission there was charging forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . numerous professors have argued that the research ’s demands would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the current era , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tension between what it can and should be allowed to do . for 18 months , it has generated purchases of government bonds , worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) on secondary markets under its securities market program ( iadb ) . nonetheless , the ecb has channeled large amounts of liquidity toward the financial system , indirectly softening the upward pressure on united states government debt refinancing . the ecb is the only institution in the european union to provide unfettered financing to governments ; but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . moreover , it has lent loans to the banking sector , recently launching a long-planned three-year refinancing operation that generates demand from eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
america 's economy was supercharged by over-leveraging ; now it comes the painful deleveraging process . after all , when banks are not aware of their own balance sheets , they are n’t held to trust others . america would face up to these problems , even if it did not simultaneously face a financial crisis . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , led to credit markets freezing . the bush administration failed to see the problems coming , denied that they were difficulties coming , then minimized their relevance and , finally , panicked .
recognizing these benefits , myanmar has put education at the heart of its reform agenda . indeed , as former south korean education minister and commission member lee myung-bak noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge economy . one priority , in order to improve inclusivity , is already underway . for example , the government currently is working to spur instruction in more local languages in more local languages , more than 100 are spoken out against myanmar – in rural areas . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their educational systems within a generation .
but what if the compensation that economists presupposed in theory does not happen in practice ? what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically forbids individual income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . instead , policies intensifying competition , whether over trade , labor markets , or domestic manufacturing can be socially destructive and politically explosive . this highlights still another reason for the failure of economic policy since 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , combined with a rebalancing of power between the global north and south , has made developing countries , with many companies within them , the key global economic actors . but cross-border investment by countries like brazil , india , and china now flows not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to “ old ” f-di-exporting states . together , these changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime , and they should be broadening interest in developing a more efficient investment-protection framework . this gives new rationale for strengthening the international framework for protecting foreign investment . at a time when global outward direct investment ( fdi ) flowed from just a few sources : the traditionally affluent states of europe , north america , and japan .
the worry now is that information technology is on to flex the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it suddenly will take off at far more speeds than it did before . the resulting changes will not all be welcome in an economic sense as well . the hockey stick curves often takes place in nature , and to do business across different cultures and continents . worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to much the same , because for most of the most part globalization is a consequence of new information technologies . for example , hockey stick curves often occur in nature .
copenhagen – amid a surge in anxiety about climate change , a growing number of countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws in the 2000 outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . the plan ’s intent was understandable : if everyone in the world was exchanging most of the light light light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , for example , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming . the republican party ’s current effort in the american congress to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent bulbs revived this discussion . many contend that a knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers are driving .
this suggests that for the uk , mega-regional trade deals – which give uk firms access to multiple markets but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best route forward . after all , it is this approach that would allow uk firms to positions themselves in a well-developed , integrated form of supply chains , serving much larger markets than those to which a bilateral deal would grant them access . the key to boosting those gains , according to the iadb , is to embrace a new strategy that broadens access across and within markets . at the same time , this approach limits the gains from trade . after all , it is this approach that would allow uk firms to take positions on their own in well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving much larger markets than those that would grant them access to bilateral agreements .
on the other hand , income inequality , which is neither too extreme nor arising from corruption nor privileged access to markets , is understood and accepted . against this backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns in the global economy , and parts of it are different . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , partly owing to the fiscal constraints of overly indebted countries . the provision of high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical to our level of equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . the growth patterns that systematically exclude the subgroups founder on losing their political and social cohesion , and ultimately on losing their sdg support .
one criterion that seems universally accepted is the party ’s use , encouragement , or , at least , condoning violence , as was evidently the case with golden dawn ’s role in assaults on migrants in athens . thus , the criteria for bans should be spelled out in advance . if the rule of law is to take hold , democratic self-defense may not appear as ad hoc or arbitrary . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and are committed to unraveling core democratic principles – especially because many of europe ’s extremist parties go out of their way to emphasize that they are not anti-democracy ; on the contrary , they struggle to disfavor “ the people . ” for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs clear only before extremist parties even arise .
elected officials apparently need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . either the government or the whole system will be overturned , they will never be . for them , patriotism means being harder--headed to protect the national interest and embrace more democratic policies that assist the working masses , rather than the jet-setting fat cats . the other side of this argument , therefore , is that the interests of ordinary people have been subject to popular frustration with those of the elite – must be heard and react . a democracy in which the majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable .
more important , wealth and consumption in china have become closely related to real-estate values , rather than equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent drop against the us dollar represented only about 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 , far below double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . while official u.s. figures show a overall import price decline of 11 % on average in the 12 months through august , this is attributable almost entirely to the lower cost of energy . thus , on a overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is actually substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it is competing . even more pertinent , the fall in the renminbi and other currencies over the last year had very little effect on america ’s import prices because the chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and do n’t adjust when exchange rates adjust .
so , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between real and potential growth , precisely how long it will take depend on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in all the cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . so , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between real and potential growth , precisely how long it will take depend on policy choices and speed up structural adjustment . at the same time , there is nothing inherently automatic about that . in southern europe , for example , the process will take even a while there are more missing components for recovery in those countries .
but the belarusian economic-policy model can not survive , with the eu ’s trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . like spain in a dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . belarus can not borrow enough to cover this , either . finally , the eu should work to relax belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka , laying the foundations for rapid development as soon as he disappears .
south koreans , for example , now enjoy a standard living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ relentless categorization of south korea as the “ “ emerging ” economy ” ” ” ” ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s ’s ’s and turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s wealth levels have not come anywhere near that of south korea , and still are considerably wealthier than the rest of the n-11 ; some of it remains among the world ’s poorest countries . at the same time , the asian n-11 countries , like the philippines and vietnam , grew strongly since 2005 , while mexico ’s output has been slightly disappointing , and egypt ’s far more so . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , with their current nominal gdp up by around $ 6.5 trillion . and very different levels of wealth have been distributed by these countries .
for the first time since world war ii , europe finds itself without a notable ally or partner . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have been quick to mock the vision of an alliance based on shared values , as china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . moreover , multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open-ended support for authoritarians . turkey ’s recent incursion into northern syria , owing largely to a betrayal by the kurds , who ran the fight against the islamic state ( isis ) , has also undercut eu interests . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and a betrayal of allies are turning into a new norm of global order .
leading economists such as germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s ’s ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . it forecast that labor shortfalls are a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % between now and 2030 , and worth just 1.3 % , from then to 2050 . indeed , comparatively few europeans seem to contest the eu ’s moral obligation to accept the asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war , or to political oppression elsewhere . in doing so , whether or not there is a change of public sentiment in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed as even more negatively . removing some 70 million additional jobs and therefore taxpayers in europe ’s economy would obviously be catastrophic .
at last count , some 258 million of the world ’s migrants have been worldwide , with 22.5 million registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will be dwarfed if even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people ( the world ’s poorest countries ) by 2050 as they are alone . and yet no international treaty cover climate-induced migration – a gap that must be confronted now . not since 1951 has the international standards for refugee protection received so much attention .
lukyanivska prisons , kyiv , it has been said to have no atheists in foxhole . here , after my performance on show , and four and a few months in a cell , i discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . in this love and family season , the loneliness of prison are almost unbearable . when , out of an unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your own cell – for a dozen hours unbroken , and the authoritarian regime of coercion , including its media , tries to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prague is the only intimate , belief , and reassuring that one can have . divine , one realizes , is one ’s only friend , and has only been debates , for – deprived even of access to a trusted priest – there is no one else where to confide one ’s worries and hope .
borrowing buy-downs may help keep the schooling sector becoming more “ competitive , ” and could prove to be a mechanism to leverage the extra resources of education , for which capital-strapped countries may be reluctant to borrow otherwise . but , beyond aid cuts , donor governments may also make it more difficult to borrow countries to repay the aid funds they are owed ( this is not limited to education loans ) . and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count on unsubsidized credits as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable countries to meet their oda targets . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in pursuit of non-grant-based aid . this reverses the trend over the last few decades toward grant-based financing , particularly for basic schooling .
it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . with more attention to the country ’s ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or job prospects , this population might not choose the violence as an instrument of change . ultimately , the strengthened economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work toward a fairer distribution of a growing pie than it is to a shrinking one . moreover , rapidly paced but ill-fated economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for preventing conflict in the long term .
water supplies are also highly variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular rates . while we may not be certain about the precise effects , many researchers believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and the frequency of extremes can also rise . this would make use of the existing delivery infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without great modifications . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we have seen that concern about exhausting resources is not new . one new factor influencing the transmission of water supplies is rising to global temperature .
that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security challenges . qaddafi ’s ’s armed forces were elected on the basis of fidelity and ethnic affiliation , rather than any conception of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what might be the most humane of the outcomes ) may be great . but , arguably , the most important lesson i have learned in iraq stems from the almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army with no disbursement or retirement . libya is fortunate in some ways , too . its oil sector appears to have been relatively intact , and thus should contribute to government revenue relatively soon .
even under the more favorable conditions prevailing today in the west , large state ( and many private ) firms often need to break up , restructure , merged , or close . the trouble lies in the assumption that most state-owned enterprises have value . in formerly communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten from the start . in the last years of communism ’s investment was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even further out of insecurity about new property rights , privatization gains often remain precarious at best .
yet , while 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world . as debates have shown , these issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we have electrified more than four million households through targeted efforts over a short period – an effort that has featured prominently in discussions hosted by the united nations secretary-general ’s ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that has drawn the interest from other developing countries . a new international initiative called the “ electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieving the mdgs , as well as from his initiative “ sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 .
high fertility rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . nigeria ’s ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s gdp could grow from 18 million today to 42 million . but causation also runs the other way , too . the un ’ medium fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . high birth rates stymie economic growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stock of physical and human capital on a pace necessary to drive rapid income gains .
fast-forward to the present : the us economy has been growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , tourism , and business services . it now has the lowest-common-denominator sovereign spread for any country in its ratings class , signaling that markets think the us rating agencies have slumped at the wheel . with all of the ingredients made by this catastrophic outcome , it has been there . once north korea of europe under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now stands at 25 % that of germany . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , brazil , nigeria , and south africa are faced with plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest record-setting interest rates and a strengthening currency .
peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalized relations between the americas and sudan . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming rounds of negotiation , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur , in order to ensure that the peace effort there receive equal level of attention as north-south efforts . what is needed now is the political will of the us , and not merely the american people , to sustain that diplomacy . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – notably egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role . conversely , afghanistan needs to be prepared to lead an international effort to impose major consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war .
this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects the socialization of potentially weak bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries through the creation of joint-liability mechanisms . it is this de facto debt mutualization , which in turn drove down creditors ’ assumption of lower interest rates and merely lower interest rates , which allowed renzi , samaras , valls , valls , and others to distance themselves from the austerity policies of their own . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for the policy ’s benefits and collectivize the costs , he pursues the policies sooner , more rapid and larger than he would if he had to bear the costs on his own . the new debt , however , is either nothing but a louisiana form , lowering the pressure to take painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
the story is as complicated as indonesia itself as it is in itself . one prominent of indonesia ’s scientists , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , particularly the wayang individual ’s religious tradition . in short , javanese culture helps indonesia to handle the many diverse votes that the new democracy is looted . and , at the same time , why have n’t the world taken note ? according to timothy erson , in contrast to the great religions of the near east … religion of wayang has no prophet , no single message , no bible , no redeemer . according to harry erson , contrary to the great religions of the near east … religion of wayang has no prophet , no fault , no redeemer .
engaging the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting – the eu , economic , and energy cooperation – is critical to its engagement with the southern mediterranean region . the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature , nobel prize-winning model for multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , russia , too , must respond to the new vulnerability stemming from changing global conditions . the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain a rigid aversion to military intervention , and seek to defend its own strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated , most visibly , into repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that already has produced tens of thousands of casualties .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by palestinian king salman al arabia resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a significant regional power as false . but the lavish aid came at a price : egypt was forced to relinquish two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . how , then , did the country reach that point ? indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly aging population depend on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists are exploiting with so much success .
in a similar vein , #bringbackourgirls campaigned online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s global book day speech , in which he called on jonathan to “ bring back their pupils . ” protests erupted throughout nigeria as well , as to countries with large nigerian diaspora populations like the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the security challenge that nigeria faces has dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , has unveiled a safe schools initiative . nigerians ’ expressions of online outrage soon translated into an organized action offline , led by former government minister olusewesili ( who also spoke at the annual world book day event ) and civil-society leaders , including the attorney general maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . the international media have paid close attention , reporting on protest , and sit-ins .
by bombing , blockading and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia has lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust throughout much of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become more cautious . by bombing , blockading russia , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failed to protect georgian citizens , russia has lost claims to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust throughout much of the world . had the russians employed their “ peacekeeping ” force merely to protect south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing nato ’s precedent in western actions in kosovo ) , they would have done little to damage their soft power , with the benefits it had exceeding the costs . an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-anti-ballistic missile system .
yet a diaspora ’s potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . the economist avner greif argues that such local-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at a prolonged pace , when the existing institutional framework has proved unable to do so reliably . as the late mit economist philip curtin has documented , since the dawn of urban life , millennia ago , trade typically involves networks of co-sexual ethnic merchants , living among aliens . greeks , phoenicians , trans-sub-saharan traders , hanseatic lines , jews , armenians , overseas china , and the dutch and british eastern india firms have organized much of the world ’s trade through such networks . though these alien traders sometimes were politically powerful in their host countries , they were often weak , enduring discrimination .
such tariffs raise the cost for companies that use metal as an input . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping to make entrepreneurship work , he will be able to help all americans . in fact , the impact on harley-davidson , for example , is to raise the cost by roughly $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an additional $ 45 million . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence of one company , it is simply reasonable that those running that business should respond as they see fit .
but selection of the experts reflected a clear bias toward finance ministry ’s views . for more than two decades , an era characterized by chronic recession and deflation , japan has maintained its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of its net wealth abroad . in fact , it has used its “ informational campaign to shape public debate , persuasive scholars , business economists , and a general public that is more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of a negative-demand shock . ” this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” at its end in last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
in fact , the great risk nowadays is that , with so much genetic descriptions of pouring organisms , we are drowning in a sea of data but moving farther away from our understanding of biological complexity . our first work is to say the least about how much different cells exist within a complex organism . indeed , the fundamental working units of any elaborate living organisms , one should remember , are cells rather than genes . what we now need are cell maps and maps of how cell talk to each another is . i think that we can now say that for c. elegans .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . new york – china ’s ongoing protest movement in the arab spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . like the brutal crackdown on and after june 3-4 was playing out , the political freedoms win in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then , beginning in february – that fell , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , however violently and rather undemocratically , romania . in the next two years , the soviet union , reeling from mikhail gorbachev ’s reform drive , finally implored . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in today ’s europe , they see little sign of the possibility – trumpian far less than half full – for reform and restructuring ; and they are impatient with a slow progression in europe . true , europe has been moving at a painfully slow pace ; but the attack on the state and its allies in the ossified supply-side side , and on the dinosaurs of the industrial stake holders , is widening . on the contrary , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-driven politicians . on the contrary , europe ’s desperate reformers now see no way to trim , take back or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-driven politicians . out of this is but a short step in proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible and , in any case , poised to crash any day now .
some african governments have reduced regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . they simply need instruments , infrastructure , and the capacity to unlock the continent ’s enormous agricultural potential . to be sure , there has been some progress . there is no reason and no excuse for the very survival of millions to unpredictable weather patterns . rather , countries must take the lead on board by drastically increasing their efficiency and productivity .
even prior to that era , england was europe ’s economic wunderkind . all feel that a seismic shift is under way . europeans may be more mercurial , believing that the chinese market will open up not just to european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to luxury goods and even to demand by a new and affluent china middle class . such rapid industrial expansion is rare , but not unprecedented . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19 th century , and japan ’s in the 20th .
everyone expects the current us president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin in the wake of the march election . but waiting in the wings is former us finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity about economic reform . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence may simply purchase putin some of the extra time . yet , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . once-and future us president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that since the financial insecurity grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by the majority .
covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for roughly 80 % of outstanding volume . over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because banks have not had to live with the consequences . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume is its own merits , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . furthermore , not only are newer issues emanating from the low-quality borrower , covenants on these instruments , from provisions designed to ensure compliance with their terms , and thus minimize default risk , have also become lax . the share of the “ weakest links ” – corporates labeled b – or lower on overall activity has risen , on average , from 2013-2015 .
issues such as sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s response to a likely shift in north korea ’s leadership will almost certainly emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on matters that , in recent years , some indian mandarins have preferred the lame-duck , for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already serving . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of america ’s likely commencement drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance to india ’s national security . likewise , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the united nations peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be addressed . all are matters that call for a creative , courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or a reflexive of solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” countries .
that practicality will sorely be tested if it is to succeed . one problem that orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . years of opposition politics have turned orban and his fidesz party , as well as its allies , out of young idealists into a practical politicians approaching the middle age . moreover , a large number of these new fidesz mps were formerly members of the other parties , collapsed right-wing parties in power , not so long ago . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks .
but it is liberalism ’s opponents that are wielding it most effectively . if liberalism is to survive as a certainly guiding framework for international relations , its proponents must tap into the passions of self-service . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the globalization and the liberal institutions that she underpin have become a sauvage . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotion , even if these emotions , owing to nostalgia – and a völkisch sense of belonging , both ever-receding sands . lacking in terms of logic and ethics , areas where the liberal world order continues to outstrip the alternative , liberals must unite with people on the emotional level .
i am convinced that it is made obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores the tremendous scientific breakthroughs of the twentieth century . its study of physics should start with physics , not the biology of biology . in studying physics , students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them with the sentiment of the math . other industrial nations can cycle through distance themselves from the disciplines , missing the crucial cohesion of a p-c-b sequence . this sequence of study was devised in the spirit of 1893 .
until that year , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funds for wars . many at that time rejected policies altogether , warning that it would erode incentives and put the economy on a downward path . fortunately , their hue and webs went unheeded . but , in britain in 1842 , an income tax became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . owing to today ’s ’s technological advances , the proportion of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally .
governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guideline ( if ratified ) . while talk is tough nowadays , the history of such deals does not inspire optimism . prior to the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ’s ( sgp ) deficit-reduction pact . in the us , it was not fulfilled the 1980 ’s deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended . yet sticking to the euro and forced all adjustment in pay risk greater unrest ; indeed , it might merely postpone the inevitable .
some borrowing above a certain period of seven-year mff may be feasible while upholding a medium-term objective of a balanced budget . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the eu ’s successor ) and mtfa . following an appeal by a member state , the eu would be empowered to borrow on capital markets under an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the bare minimum determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds . countries receiving help would be given the option of applying for the anticipated disbursement of eu funds . between eufa , the efsm and payments to third countries , its total exposure this year is £ 70.5 billion .
indeed , japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s desire to continue to kill whales is no less motivated by emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ own opposition to it . eating whales is neither necessary nor better nutrition . the japanese do have one argument that they are not so easily dismissed . it is the tradition that they wish to continue , presumably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . they argue that western countries object to whaling because , for them , whales are a rather special kind of animal , because cows are for hindus .
the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates subtract from efficient size , and that the capital market ’s ability to run its job , enhancing resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital is shifting offshore to financing other overblown conglomerates . germany , inc. , for its part , has been on its latest legs . international capital funds have stepped in , providing firms with an urgent need for liquidity while disentangling a traditional ownership network . abolishing taxes on the realized capital gains has boosted stock sales enormously .
at that point , any realistic us policy must begin by accepting the reality that complete , entirely verifiable denuclearization , is not a realistic prospect any time soon . north korea could use the passage of its time to increase its arsenal of nuclear weapons and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems , without overt testing . indeed , there is a vast gap between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missiles , and one with a dozen advanced weapons that could mounted on precision long-range missile-defense systems able to reach america . the talks would most likely be suspended ; the us would be back to where the us was two years ago , but with an overlay of the climate-change recrimination and mistrust . no amount of such developments , even absent such developments , drift is truly desirable .
their absence makes it difficult to invest excessively large sums of money in russian securities . fortunately , bond markets are dead and could take a year to revitalize them . a time has come when all of the disasters have occurred , and all the stupidities are recognized . for russia , in august 1998 , august marked that a dividing line . something fundamental has changed with the russian economy .
saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system . nowhere else in the world do it mean that modernity has experienced so far as it has never been . faces from the royal family are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are shrouded , forcible hidden . they have strolled , bussed in jts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated partly by social demands – above all , to their self-empowerment . the contrast between this dynamic of open protest , and of saudi arabia , could hardly be starker .
after wwi , the pendulum swung back toward nation states . between the two extremes lie most of the world as it is , characterized as it is by regional integration projects such as the eu or the north american free trade agreement . in this scenario , one will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . we can identify significant swings during the history of capitalism over the last two centuries , either toward a market or a state . for example , the repeal of the corn laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored a free-market market in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i.
japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan for the situation they faced in polluting areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiency and poor communication , especially regarding radiological risk . japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . yet the “ perfect storm ” of the biggest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown of the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi power plant , went beyond any scenario that had been previously envisaged . local communities initiated the immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as the ocean kindergartens and public schools ) in tandem with efforts by the governments of japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop cutting-edge technologies for remediation within these zones . despite such problems , effective action was implemented to evacuate those at risk and limit potential hazard from the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of left-wing populism is drawing to a close . kirchner ’s successor , his widow , cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . she recently suffered severe defeats in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her second two years in office . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove subdural hematoma in her brain . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs .
the three new agencies not only will enforce common technical standards , which may over time become binding across the eu , if endorsed by the european commission , they could also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency – like the one we have in place at present – eu agencies might be given a position of predominance beyond national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergency ” are precisely the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . in good times , we would probably not tell the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avert another crisis . if systemically vital national financial institutions are to be introduced at the european level in good times , while national taxpayers pick up the tab , the whole eu will continue to lose .
this week , there have been two more attacks on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one at a school of girls , in which staff were bludgeoned and bombs were dropped , and another at neighboring boys ’ schooling , where the classroom are sprayed on with bullets . the number of casualties , in the range of two of them , remains unknown . but the cause is all too well documented : the war against education . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , lebanon , myanmar , and south sudan . all are vulnerable to extremist violence , and the number of children displaced by violence is growing .
one hopes that this task has been made moderately easier by the publication of a book in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . here is one fact to consider : its entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami compares the global death toll each month with the number of deaths of hiv/aids worldwide . a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or inexpensive condoms and ininformation about safe sex to the regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost an estimated $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . this , say the great economists attending the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investment a world might possibly make . the social benefits would outweigh the costs by as much as $ 40 to one .
china ’s government concerning the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities is as less important than it is to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . japan , brazil , india , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed keen to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , with its major central banks accumulating up at a rate of nearly $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their respective positions . louisiana uchitelle of the new york times quotes extremely smart catherine mann commenting on “ a collaborative relationship that is certain between american and chinese trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite some time , ” because “ the us and its main trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to comfortable lifestyles .
washington , dc – not long ago , the separation of us fiscal supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . prior to the great depression , asset-price cycles everywhere were viewed by many as essentially innocuous , or at least as a relatively inconsequential monetary-policy channel . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle these functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to their specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial-banking-related issues altogether . in the wake of the global financial crisis , by contrast , financial oversight and macroeconomic management in this period had been forced to coalesce . this rapprochement comes from a growing recognition that asset-price cycles must be taken into account , for both macroeconomic management and financial oversight .
much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade may spur a country ’s gdp growth . and yet that is precisely what a growing number of governments need to do : pursue both levels of growth and distributional fairness . seoul , if it at all , persecution two rabbits , at once the old adage goes , both will escape . that thinking matters a great deal in terms of trade policy . the two goals , while unincompatible , differ completely from one another , and few policy tools simultaneously may help achieve both .
the ttip is not just about the american and eu . mexico already has an fta with the eu ; canada is negotiating one . meanwhile , the rest of the world – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – is wondering how a ttip that would affect each . mexico , for its part , already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . meanwhile , nafta and ttip will need to be harmonized at some point .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debts onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . as a result , the odds of a eurozone catastrophe are on the rise . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and the fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) ( eurobonds ) should be implemented . unfortunately , germany resists all of these key policy actions , because it is fixated on the borrowing risk that its taxpayers would face greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to outburst , it is not the only threat to the global economy .
indeed , chinese leaders appear to favor the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy poses a direct threat to india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . of course , there is some truth to china ’s claim that its goal for india is peaceful . but actions speaking louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior is being sent is far from peaceful . it contends , for example , that its effort to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy focuses on safeguarding the tradeoffs of the malacca straits , a maritime trade route that is perceived as a choke point for the chinese economy .
europe ’s adversaries on the road map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . but the map process does not amount to an automatic right to nato membership . on the contrary , the maps would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia on both sides . both would have to answer many hard questions and persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before they are permitted to join . too many question signs of national unity are said to exist ; too many internal conflicts do play out , and their records on political and judicial reforms are supposedly doubtful .
yet , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” ” whereas macron , such as hillary clinton , portrayed herself as the “ puppet ” of the bankers , the cultural elites , and the international plutocrats . there is little doubt that something shifted around the world in the decades of the twentieth century . the redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the social emancipation of its ethnic and sexual minorities . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more quickly than the rest of the world – their base within the industrialized working class . so what do the left and the right still do , if anything at all ?
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat and its diminished confidence in america ’s reliability and its guarantees to protect them against its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons might trigger a preemptive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strikes first in crisis . one risk is that north korea will come to possess a substantial arsenal that poses a meaningful american threat to it . “ taking advantage of them or losing it ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when its capabilities are not sufficiently robust enough to absorb an attack and still capable of mete out the sort of disruptive retaliation essential to effective deterrence .
this emphasis on increasing us exports rather than lowering us imports is a welcome feature . because that is not enough to stem further chinese theft of american civilian and military technology , new nss are right to stresses that the american government is taking further steps to stem it . at a 2013 summit meeting in sunnylands in california , us president barack obama showed china ’s then-president xi jinping ’s evidence that chinese japanese-administered industrial technology members were stealing industrial technologies . the chinese embraced the evidence , agreed that theft of industrial technology is different from other forms of espionage , and said that there would be no assistance from the chinese government for such theft in the future . when it turned to specific trade policies , nss emphasizes that america will seek to “ “ break up ” its trade barriers and provide opportunities for increased us exports .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the global balance of global power , and that america was in decline . but , again , such narratives can lead to a conflict . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries , they decided to revert to deng ’s smart-power strategy . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its power led to a more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated by deviating from a smart strategy of rising power , and violating deng ’s dictum that china should proceed cautiously and “ skillfully ” skillfully kept a low profile ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” .
though they committed themselves to its ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities also made a few avoidable errors . fiscal discipline and structural reforms were unevenly applied , and the central bank squandered its credibility at crucial moments . as such , the country ’s economic and financial fundamentals left them vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . since then , however , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of redrafted support from the international monetary fund . argentina slid back into crisis for a simple reason that not enough has changed since its latest debacle .
during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contributed to a survey by professional forecasters predicted a gdp decline in the other months of this year ; in fact , gdp has shriveled at more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest one-day drop on record . the trouble lies in the fact that a number of leading indices used to measure an economy that relies on out-of-level , incomplete , or wrong , data . as a result , projections lag behind reality . attempts by economists to predict that the future has had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has actually begun . for example , forecasters computed real gdp based on initial monthly estimates of its quarterly gdp growth , a statisticians that are frequently revised substantially as more data become available .
this is a major change in nato policy that downgrades the idea of national sovereignty and elevates to the position to provide ethical norms in international relations . at issue is an attempt to stave off an epidemic , the bearers of which in 20th century europe had been nazism , communism , fascism , and now , world nationalism . nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict , one that , for one party , at least involves nato considerations as a matter of any strategy , territories , populations , natural resources , natural resources , or even an ideology . the west is fighting a war over principles , its warfare since president bill clinton put it “ in order to end a moral tragedy . ”
far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulation to create a level playing field and to help build industrial capacity . buildings last for a decade , therefore , decisions made today have a long-run impact on us energy use . building codes already guard against dangers like wildfire and earthquakes . california ’s newest building and appliance standards are forecast to avoid the need for five large electric plants in the next ten years .
as the deal was intended to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why was so much outrage in america and the west ? rather than attempting to explore the options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the americas rapidly pressed the un security council on further sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the un security council , to vote against a us-led sanctions resolution . nevertheless , bush evidently failed in his efforts to preempt america ’s strategy , because new un sanctions were being implemented earlier this month . i fear this is because america has found itself having denied its primacy in setting global policy toward iran .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher debt-to-gdp ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . there is also the issue of reversing causality . for countries caught in economic distress , debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise . without explanation , they chose to divide debt-to-gdp ratios into the subsequent categories : below 30 % , 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and more than 90 % . and it turned out to be that growth rates decline in each of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio increases , only more in the final category .
that is also why it is much further behind the world in its “ energy transitions ” ” than most people realize . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are driven by the widespread belief that the united nations ’ intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) is telling us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . solar and wind together currently deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach only 4.1 % by 2040 . as a result , the policies pushing people and businesses to shift toward immature technology will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . vaclav havel , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , argues that “ “ the claims of a rapid transformation to a zero-carbon society ” of plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a vastly accelerated shift to renewables now would fail to relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to the global energy race anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 .
fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money-circulating in african countries . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . the ugandan doctor , working in norway , cares little about the cost of a beer match in kampala . it is also willing – and able – to pay as much as a local physician for service provision and , of course , home in uganda . yet the dearth of remittances cuts both ways .
the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . rather , the precautionary principle is to be established judiciously and rationally , offsetting potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer . in europe , on the other hand , greater weight is placed on risk avoidance , which undermines private-sector confidence in investing in innovation . and this is an notion of risk underpins economic interactions . but mitigating all risk is impossible , so that the goal of doing so is untenable .
ramallah – for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks , without a freeze on settlement activity in the west bank and jerusalem , is a sort of victory . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , albeit one indirect , is centered on one strategic issue : borders . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s call for the arabs to give their blessing to the talks . just to remind the arab world , as the arab league prepared to take off the ground , israel ’s government endorsed a resolution to crack ground on 112 housing units in a settlement south bethlehem and 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem . ramallah , palestinians and israelis had different and perhaps conflicting expectations from the ongoing indirect negotiations that the united states had been pushing both sides to begin .
that the failure of international capital markets led to the abrupt and destructive large-scale capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes triggers immediate federal help . indeed , unlike moral hazard , market failure highlights the circumstances under which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically indefensible . for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the advanced by orthodox commandment `` thou will not intervene , '' '' '' the critical feature underlying globalization ’s hazard is a market failure . consider other destructive events , which are the uninsured ( and frequently uninsurable ) in the private sector .
the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its eu political authority becomes . as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . thus , though european countries remained democratic , the eu institutions – where sovereignty over crucial decisions – remained democracy-free . handing european money and politics to the cartels failed to spell the end of european democracy did not just spell the end of may ; italy , too , fueled a vicious cycle of economic authoritarianism and poor economic performance . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to abide by their failed policies when recessionary economic forces strengthened .
tokyo – the scale of the ongoing earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios . almost six months later , the total damage remains hard to estimate . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now tariff japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level . and now the country has been absorbing an additional massive drop : another downgrade of its bond ratings . social turmoil and confusion , together with radiation leaks since the fukushima nuclear-power plant , continue .
moreover , the iranian regime has forged a proxy network of proxy forces throughout the region . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militias , shia militias , and hezbollah that controls southern lebanon and have thousands of rockets ready to target israel . syria and iraq have become crucial links in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan through lebanon to lebanon . even if the accuracy of the iranian missile can not be taken for granted , many could still evade evade defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome of will , for example , have been unable even to neutralize every clandestine missiles launched from gaza .
indeed , rasheed notes that at every american trip to his film screening , it is necessary to apologize before they begin ties to rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as an agent of his country . “ personally , i ask nothing ; i ’m here to clear-cut some beams by a medium of movie ’s medium . ” iraq , ravaged by war , and now shaken daily under the path of violence , is well known as the most intellectually outfits of arab countries ’ arab countries . as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region have often repeated : “ books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , to be read in iraq , to be read . ” here is the hope that channel and its arab colleagues continue to build up an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here it hopes that the us and international audiences ’ relations to rasheed go from anything to his work .
and , as europe ’s recent post-crisis experience has shown , it is politically difficult to pursue structural reform , when vested interests have captured the regulatory system . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risks . first and foremost , the risk stems from business cycles in advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation and growth rates rose and are rising alongside . complicating matters further for china , the rush to build an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often misrepresented as a power grab since assuming office in 2012 .
what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” ” ” ” ” to quote one academic study . in the us , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity significantly . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen ’s average life chances by 2-3 years . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen average life expectancy by 2-3 years . moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits to society .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to accepting the migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives to cooperate . there is little question that it is hard for the 27 eu sovereign countries to behave like either . but , just as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over differences or to avoid dissent , much less destroying the compact at the core of the european project will not make matters any more urgent . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity . a permanent , structured defense cooperation , agreed by the european council last december , is a good place to start , with countries increasing , such as joint european strategic planning , on the european level .
slaying at nine other journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , signaled the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to a grim global tally . according to reporters without borders , there have been more than 1,000 journalists killed worldwide in the last 15 years alone , and only a handful of other culprits have been brought to justice . and yet , fresh glimmers of hope are proliferating . to be sure , the media are under assault like never before , rather than merely from fake news and hyper-polarizing presidents . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income , but only 15 % of its people . now , billions of people have lifted themselves out of poverty and become wealthier , healthier , and more opportunities . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseeable corollaries . future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet , not so long ago , almost nobody saw it coming .
indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s ascent by castigating them as a tool of western power , the stalking horse for american or german interests ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for a more assertive form of leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview today is . at the same time , poland ’s polish communist government has accentuated how incoherent its opposition came , owing to the tensions inherent in a marriage of economic liberals , the leftist workers , anti-immigrant catholics , and extreme nationalists . nurturing suspicions of who were initially backing wedges among various groups .
but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the determination to do so ( though he may decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more women to power ) . it is also disturbing that some women abe has singled out for his cabinet and key party posts , as well as the arch-conservatives , who advocate keeping women in home and taking care of their children . things are only bad at lower levels of government where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % have no female members at all . as the liberal democratic party ’s leader , abe should try to serve the local party branches to elect more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . here , too , the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries with respect to its ratio of female mps .
some researchers suggest that average human life might well reach 90 years or more by mid-century . so , what good is a longer life if we can not maintain our standard of living ? a crucial difficulty in planning for reinforced longevity is that we really do n’t know whether that will actually happen . living long ago is one of our deepest wish , with medical and economic breakthroughs providing the hope of fulfilling it . but what if our wish is taken now ?
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be wary of alienating the political and business elites who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to build a national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will have to reach across this political divide . to that end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . promisingly , jokowi has a strong reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , and a knack for communicating with the people . and , like a political outsider , he is in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , unified , and vault to the country ’s pantheon of big leaders .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should produce the fsb a legal personalities enshrined in the international treaty . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers direct by other standard setters , review standards by individual countries , and publish the results . currently , the executive board does not have a formal status and only a tiny , if high level , permanent staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . all too political a body is needed to behave like a systemic-risk watchdog .
at the same time , the case has attracted attention in the west , too . dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied to women ’s support . of course , the pussy riot could scarcely be categorized as musicians . there were many more feminist chants and crude chords . in the us , they were more interested in bringing about visual images .
moreover , tony chukwueke , the gdpr ’s head , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , to turn the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing force that can dominate mexico ’s markets in the gulf of guinea and other emerging regions . in the early 1990s , desperately short of a hard currency , nigeria ’s negotiated contracts permitting oil-producing firms to develop new fields and recoup their investment before sharing their profits . now , following firms ’ discovery of massive reserves , the technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take the charges against the country ’s oil policies are seeking nigeria to obtain a larger slice of the pie . the national petroleum resources ministry ( gdpr ) , the national petroleum corporation ’s institute , has dismissed such claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on the companies that secures the deadline . this also means ending the government co-financing of an operating cost , and demanding that local oil companies tap capital markets to bridging the shortfall .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , a so-called “ “ war on terror ” was initiated . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were by no means whole ; many countries also ramped up the monitoring and policing of domestic media and ordinary citizens . the damage has been particularly marked in russia , where anti-terror laws have been often used as an instrument to muffle voices of those offering independent or alternative viewpoints , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by using safety as a pretext to deflate russia ’s media legislation that explicitly protect journalists from government censorship , the government undermined journalism considerably . freedom of speech and individual privacy , governments claimed , would have to limit security .
yet all of them were motivated nonetheless by a desire to scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose . and they have been all but willing to follow the dictators ’ traditions , letting them resort to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . nonetheless , all of them have been motivated by the desire to scuttle the governments and the institutions they oppose . but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your high representative owes you ” to you , not his industry solely , but also his judgment and betrays , instead serving you as having sacrifices to reflect on your views . populist campaigns in prominent referenda this year have differed in important respects . colombian opponents of the peace treaty , for example , appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the army and the farc , rather than to national particularism , as in the uk and the netherlands .
but now that we are aware of accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are obliged ; in scott ’s view , we are pressured to reappraise the work in this light . in other words , bad behavior , or even alleged bad behavior , may actually taint an artistic job because the artist can not be separated from his art at all . to the bookish young man , allen , an anxious intellectual who still gets a girl , was a sort of role model . there may be something more sinister and immoral in movies that one should take note . this is at least some other interested proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified just because we do not like the artist behaved in a private .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed on trumped-up charges of corruption . indonesia ’s house speaker , setya novanto , was also forced to resign , following his capture of attempting extort money from a freeport-mcmoran mining company . indonesia ’s house speaker , setya novanto , was also forced to resign , following his capture of attempting to extort money from a freeport-mcmoran mining company . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption offenses has just handed down the country ’s former energy and mineral minister , jero wacik , to four years in prison . at the same time , journalism has played a larger role .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , it is more likely that us politicians continue to increase their countries ’ dependence on funding , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market-oriented adjustment , than they are to implement tough structural reforms and fiscal adjustment . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” approach entails combining internal reform , funding , and judicious use of the market-based pricing mechanism . for this , many countries endured painful disruptions that aggravated perhaps avoidable output slumps , caused unemployment to surge , and at worst eroded potential growth .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild bild published an article detailing how the breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ treated as pieces of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” the bild ’s bild is a report from the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission ” to provide humanitarian relief to affected areas in the southeastern eastern ukraine and luhansk regions . it describes how the meeting ’s attendees had focused not just on humanitarian assistance , but rather has served as a form of shadow government . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations of the ukrainian government . working groups worked with the russian authorities to manage the region ’s financial sector , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , as well as trade .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can alter its own relationship with europe , there should undoubtedly be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will produce that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of greek politeness on this path . let us be very obvious , too , about renegotiating the terms of eu membership , ” ” ” ” the sanctuary of those who want to leave but want to convince people that it truly is an adjustment in the relationship . if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , there should undoubtedly be no mistaking the temper and remodeling that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . but they will not thank us and accommodate us .
it is also depriving a continent of both the talents and donations needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ throwing women into the sciences and the technology ultimately promise to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars show the world about how to do that . but they need help , and programs offering scholarships and aid are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . the causes of africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stem gender imbalance often are matched by a leaky pipe : girls start out with interest and aptitude , but drop off the disciplines at different points in their education .
the advantages of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . for the us , the current system is both a risky and inefficient business . different monies are not simply an annoyance for tourists who arrive home , with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste the time and resources on the largely nonsensical efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only the banks acting as middlemen ) . and yet , farfetched , a global currency may sound , recall that prior to the era of world war i , prolonged the gold standard seemed equally implausible .
in the past , transitional agreements amounted to what george orwell called the “ catastrophic gradualism . ” what they have failed to do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counterproposal . after all , it would go a long way toward stabilizing a palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically boosting a peace settlement ’s chances of a long-term success . their offer – which , admittedly , would have to go much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative or its portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – might even have included kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to a final settlement . but , with its inclusion in a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into “ grimmest gradualism . ”
most are anti-umno and support the pas . her sentence has been roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insist that the penalty is justly applied and can not be questioned because it has divine sanction . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country , and raised voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power . these are not politicians but former idealists who are delighted to be happy that their goals of islamicizing the state are being realized . the caning of kafka , by contrast , is hardly an example of political manipulation , and for that reason is perhaps even more worrisome .
specifically , an america would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the us might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a division within asia and the asia-pacific region . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a china-centered pacific . of course , the us would need to respond by concluding any northeast asian fta with the us in order to preserve its own role in global trade – and on the supply chains that dominate asian economies . it would most likely seek to expand and deepen its infant trans-pacific partnership , a trade deal that us president barack obama has committed to last year ’s american leadership . because japan would not want to be disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it might indeed embrace america ’s invitation .
for the boj , the fundamental problem is its profound institutional fear of rocking the boj politically and , therefore , its inability to play the role of chief economist . as a result , america ’s fed chairman nowadays commands super-normal clout . but , while it softs many important technical contributions to different debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus may not reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nation states that have not yet decided whether it does prefer greater unity or more decentralization . as the premier pan-european union body , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe ’s debate on fiscal policy , business policy , and the demographic transition .
these findings were foreshadowed in the us last year by anne case and angus deaton , who showed that life expectancy was on the decline for large population segments , including america ’s so-called angry rust belt males . but , with incomes in the bottom 90 % having stagnated for a third of a century ( and declining for a substantial share ) , health data simply confirmed that things did not go well for vast swaths of the country . and while america may be at the extremes of this trend , things were n’t better elsewhere . why was the opposition in america coming just when the us economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ? why was the backlash in america coming just when the us economy seemed clearly on the mend , rather than earlier ?
indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s ’s ’s right to exist , whereas hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement simply to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people at the minimum demands . it would require bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in another asymmetrical war like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to go unheeded , owing to the parties ’ incontrovertible distinction over core issues , every other peace effort is more tactical than strategic . in neither of them do conditions yet exist for an immediate leap from war to peace , nor are the parties themselves expecting that they will have to happen .
for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro in its truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to a revived deutsche mark or the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation , as well as perhaps the franc – relative to the euro . specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , europe ’s intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous euro exit and reinstate the deutsche mark and the cfa franc . to be sure , france and germany would have to put in place intermediate arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability . whatever their decisions , the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve considerably .
none of this would have been possible had iran ’s antiquated muslim rulers not authorized academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression – something sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about whomever they had their ideas and aspirations to exchange them with others . in its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , female writers , and scholars in the world . thus , islamist revolutionaries in 1979 made a point of preserving zakastrian fire temples . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are new global terrorists , deterring their intellectual/alism regimes .
initially , the leadership group could include representatives from a core group of eu states – such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered by and linked to their presidents and prime ministers . the leadership group would thus represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to resolving and resolving core issues , and would provide a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . addressing the current crisis would be a ’s first priority . its outright ties with us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from existing arrangements . in order to ensure broad eu membership and transparency throughout europe and within existing structures , eu leaders should include a proxy for the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato .
now , the industrialized world is far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and its reversal will be a major factor in the recovery . just as some confidence will return in an eventually reorganizing banking system , and long bond yields will fall with downturns , mortgages and other borrowing rates will decline and monetary-policy transmission mechanisms will revive growth , support for economic activity and stabilizes real house prices , albeit at substantially lower levels . finally , there are two big differences between the 1930s and today . a second critical distinction is that we know that enough is not to repeat mistakes – namely , trade protectionism in the 1930s .
populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ make gloomy truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” the terrorists have hit europe hard with a vengeance ; and millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger are taxing european institutions to straining social cohesion . scientists continue to surprise us with great success as well , and billions of people worldwide have lifted themselves out of poverty . but the dark clouds have formed on the horizon , in the short term . of course , our expectations will always be in tension with reality .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia , and the united states is not so much about what it might mean on the ground – which remains to be seen as un inspectors beginning to flow into syria , and us hopes , chemical-weapons stockpiles are beginning to be destroyed . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the entire international system , now nearly dysfunctional , is to work properly on the future . rather , the agreement ’s central significance consists in the fact that it has been hit upon all : united states secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional us diplomatic venues , and cuts an agreement on an issue of intense mutual interest . in the days , weeks and months ahead , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria are , one hopes , embarked on a new era , in which the american and russia work together on other pressing global issues as they should be . an agreement on syria could accomplish something else : the americans might recognize that , amlo , and behold , there are additional ways of solving problems than by dropping bombs .
to be sure , transnational corporations enjoy flexibility on transfer pricing , and can exert downward pressure at the time when it makes new investment decisions , but its flexibility does not match the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . there is also the benefit of being at the center of the global economy , rather than in its periphery . capital is in a much better position than labor , because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital is better situated in the global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it is hard to move it . after all , the benefits of global capitalism are unequally distributed .
for my part , i am unsure ; but i would n’t be surprised if that happened . i have long defaulted on my five-year forward pricing for a lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to think about the equilibrium price of oil . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil ’s price is less a matter of a speculative variation , making it a purer approximation about the underlying cost of commercial supply and demand factors . the graph i prepare – made before the latest oil-price acceleration in early november – reveals the five-year forward rate of oil picking following a period of some stability . with the spot price has now shifted above those of a five-year forward pricing , one might conclude that a trend shift is underway .
the dpj ’s sole justification for being so far continues to be its anti-ldp stance , with the sdp long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and pnp strongly opposes the koizumi era ’s privatizations . but the biggest problem with the hatoyama ’s government is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . this was supposed to have no surprise to anyone . the dpj was established in 1998 as the “ jambalaya ” party consisting of people abandoning the ldp , including hatoyama himself , with the former socialist party . that does not amount to a coherent government program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly made the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness .
preparing for an effective defense of the state is unthinkable without more or less participating in all institutions of state . the region ’s new republics , faced with no concrete or visible foe at present , face no concrete or visible foe . in a democratic state these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society first understands the importance of defense . as a result , many are considering defensive expenditures as a luxury , if not outright wasted . so we must be reminded of time and again that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of every person .
more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with their unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to boost agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this type of research . my own work on soil microbes at auburn has resulted in the issuance of three american patents , with a handful of agricultural firms pursuing the rights to commercialize agricultural produce .
iran backed the americas during the first gulf war but was left out of the madrid peace conference . and when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s military in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed grand bargain that would put all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . the iranians also pledged to halt the deftness of the israeli-palestinian peace process . iran has also bolstered america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . in the american-iranian equation , it has been america , not iran , that has pursued rigid ideological diplomacy .
at the same time , america has long pursued its military superiority . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 us-led anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) treaty . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional force and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , it will not allow russia , china , or the rest of the world to give any chance of a return to us hegemony . putin recently made this clear by unveiling the number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ”
it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and a rapidly dwindling ) and comprising mostly of the post-industrial , low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly viewed as peripheral . but in copenhagen , the structure created by the lisbon treaty has failed . beyond its failures in copenhagen , the eu has a number of other problems . its know-it-all attitude grates at around everywhere in the world .
but larger companies also have a greater capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . when the world ’s largest companies , and most well recognized brands , take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and producers , imposing a firm commitment to act on its core values , others tend to follow , or risk being left behind . if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it will not permit wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to more change in packaging for the entire retail sector . likewise , the same is true of both wages and labor practices . those operating in an ethical manner , seeking to improve the lives of everyone associated with gadjoining , marketing , and distribution of their products , will benefit greatly from kudos , more business , or simply not singled out being the wrong actor .
but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . simply put , the western countries ’ current approach does not work at all . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , as well as 40 some international ngos involved in providing aid to pakistanis . despite massive increases in aid dollars in recent years , including the billions authorized by former president barack obama , those in the us on earth are largely cut off from the us delivery process .
in his meeting with ceos of major us oil and gas firms , francesco told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all ” must not lead to the unstated effect of a spiraling extreme climate change caused by the catastrophic rise in global temperatures , harsher environments , and higher poverty levels . in doing so , francis underscored the moral dimension of the problem : first , francis has underscored the moral dimension of this problem : there is no question that everyone can win : taking advantage of it . he has noted that oil companies are engaged in “ the sustained quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement has clearly urged keeping most fossil-fuel producers underground . and he has reminded some executives that “ civilization ” requires energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! in his meeting with ceos of major us oil and gas firms , francesco told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the unstated effect of a spiral of extreme climate change as a result of catastrophic global temperatures , harsher environments , and rising poverty levels .
and a nearly identical , invariably lethal illness , kuru , ravaged aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . the resulting epizootic ( an animal epidemic ) affected more than 280,000 cows . similarly , in the united states and elsewhere , healthy cattle were feeding meat and bone food from infected cattle . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s .
from every aspect , the extremity of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do not need it , and those who are unable to earn it – are highly problematic . if left untreated , it results in stepped-up matters , followed by accelerated recovery , renewed deleveraging in the us economic system , with the highest first-round cost , extended joblessness , and a growth crisis , borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer them . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as a number of mortgage holders with a very high level of legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their households ’ own market value . all of this has been slowing social mobility , tears , already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuating genuine worries about the functioning and sustainable patterns of today ’s global economic system . in the next round , as the system has slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would have unacted , accelerating their disengagement from a deleveraging world economy .
everywhere else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical errors , erroneous theories , american interventions , etc. – faced only a defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly apparent that an armed struggle for power in latin american terms was ablaze . every few groups remained : the shining path in peru , josé rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for a brief time that the zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . in country after country , the guerillas were ousted , pacified , brought into the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere had made guerilla warfare illegitimate : as che went to his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule had prevailed , taken in arms was nonsensical .
berlin : european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . at that time , the working class dependably supported the parties of the extreme left . the social foundation of interwar fascism made it reasonable to see it as a right-wing party . today , the social foundation of left-wing politics has all but vanished . the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : produce shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants .
putting this aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complicated that he merited the exceptional step of the referendum . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect on that complexity . it should have been a careful and intentional sounding of the will of the people . it was supposed to be organized and acted with the result of respect for the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed on the greek people . instead , greece had rushed through a hastily arranged referendum .
in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping interpretations of human rights than many people realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights in different ways . for some , a moral framework offered over human rights is enough in itself ; but for others , as william galston of the brookings institution notes , “ a language of human rights hardly exhausts the realms of ethical and spiritual goods . ” as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has been engaged in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for many centuries . in a case of circumcision , meaningful tensions exist not only between religious freedom and individual ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and state authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives .
new delhi – there is something of a number of five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship to one of sheela ’s well-known historical cha pancha sheela : mutual respect for one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in one another ’s domestic matters ; equality and mutual advantage ; and peaceful co-existence ; and a peaceful and peaceful co-existence . now , china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . updated principles would uphold strategic communication and sound bilateral relationships ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand cooperation in areas of infrastructure , investment , and expand mutual understanding and friendships ; expanding coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . india would be fortunate to embrace each of these broad principles .
for 25 years , the bank tried to lift governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the bank also pushed for the privatization of national health systems , waterborne water and road networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical industries . this extreme , free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” went against the practical lessons of the developmental achievements of china and the rest of asia . the result has been disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . practical development strategies recognizes that public investment – in sectors like agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary complements to private investment .
in the run-up to next year ’s us presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of his leeway among foreign leaders . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted for evidence of alleged embezzlement , handing the government an excuse to bar him from a ballot . when the american has betrays his own domestic values to avoid challenging russia , he reinforces putin ’s hand considerably . putin ’s authority may seem unshakeable ; but in fact , he is propped up by his propaganda and fear . meanwhile , perceptions that he has america on the ropes have enables putin to continue silencing his opponents .
across europe , calls for an “ affordable energy ” is fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green-energy commitments . throughout the uk , calls for achieving an affordable energy policy quickly become a climate of increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green energy commitments . five years ago , britain breached the international mold by committing legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , its political leaders are being openly attacked by “ burdensome ” green taxes . with some energy tariffs moving center stage , there is a danger that already-weak incentives for investment in low-carbon energy will be further undermined .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain its public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , give ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform , become increasingly disillusioned . indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reform is dead . an kleptocracy of government officials , their families , well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state , seemingly aimed at blocking any reform that might threaten their privileged status . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the american presidential election season began . apart from another reasonably productive nuclear-safety summit in seoul in march 2012 , public-opinion news on the disarmament front over the past year has surely been dismal . negotiations to “ de-emphasize ” the us 2,000 nuclear-armed states that remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness has never really begun . meanwhile , none of the other nuclear-armed state has held the slightest interest in a bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiation until the two major powers , which currently hold an estimated 95 % of their world stockpile , are making further significant cuts . cautious start moving the american people to amend their nuclear doctrine – to accepting that nuclear weapons an ’ “ sole purpose ” is to respond to the threat , rather than to another sort – has gone nowhere .
in the process , he has transformed a country that has been in the grip of drug barons , and on the verge of becoming a failed state . its hostage rescue mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum in last year ( a moment when chávez ’s own military high command supposedly rejected his demands to fudge the result ) onto a defensive . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . yet the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia . the reborn of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a rising economy , have delivered , for the first time in three decades , of normality to colombia ’s ’s ’s ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its sprawling jungle regions . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s ’s popularity and a growing economy , have delivered for the first time in three decades , of normality to colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its sprawling jungle regions .
yet the fact remains that a substantial portion of the world ’s 30 million displaced children , 12 million of whom are refugees , will go through their school-age years without ever set foot in a primary school . clearly , the assistance to help international education there will have to rise . beyond mobilizing private sources of financing , the us must make the assistance already available ( sdg 13 billion this year ) go a lot further than it did in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to scale up their own investments in education . and yet , with an annual financing gap for primary and secondary education alone , it also seems clear that the us needs a new approach . around the world ’s 35 conflict zones , some 75 million children are currently denied both schooling and a prospects for future employment .
in this sense , these public institutions have already largely bailed out private institutions . but the risks have not been mitigated . the margin for error for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet capitalized strongly , modest losses from outright default and indirect losses by firms with business in greece can threaten bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending . and , indeed , a significant portion of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund .
by forecasting medication needs , aggregating orders , and encouraging competition , in conjunction with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers managed to ensure market-related efficiencies . as a result , these efforts reduced the costs of annual hiv therapies from just over $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 by 2016 . it would have been useful , for example , for programs to track how high rates of blood pressure were diagnosed and administered , what the proportion of those on treatment had attained blood-control , and what cure levels were required to reduce premature deaths by the desired target . the resulting economies of scale enabled their suppliers to shift from the low-grade , high-margin solutions , low-margin profit models . finally , aids efforts were able to expand as a result of powerful advocacy and collaborations that transformed markets for diagnostic and treatment programs .
just before last year ’s trade talks in cancún , the american made some concessions so that it was no longer the sole holdout . the global consensus , reflected in the commission report , calls attention to more exemptions , so that for any time soon , drug can be made available on drug grounds , say , in any case , where to do so can save lives . in its bilateral trade deals , however , america is demanding what is becoming known as the “ trips plus , ” which would strengthen intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries are only entitled to the creation of inexpensive generic drugs during and other emergency situations . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what is killing a person is part of the epidemic . the bilateral agreement forms the core of enhanced ties between countries ’ friendship .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . meanwhile , rates of gdp growth in china will not change dramatically . and if its exports grow more rapidly , they may allow the renminbi to rise . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . if it is , then china ’s ’s ’s exports will grow at a slower pace .
new york – today , the situation is very different . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad spectrum of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral component of effective country councils and program implementation , just as it has been established for the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its articles of agreement . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussion with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on country or policymaking work , was discouraged . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the kind of supra-national issues that are now grappling with its policy agenda . precisely , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential , sub-national and private counterparts .
leila zerrougui , the un ’s special representative for child children , and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of schoolchildren in schools a “ trigger violation ” for naming terrorist organizations in the un secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council . and , with the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education , and a former nigerian minister of finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . this has meant funding school rangens , fortifications , and surveillance machinery to placate parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to make their schooling safe to take part . once slow to learn , the world is acting now . thirty countries have recently signed on lucens , or safe school guidelines instructing their military authorities to prevent schools from being used as instruments of warfare .
this makes it all the more reason why greece remains insolvent and a coercive restructuring of its public debt is unavoidable . but the two largest policy players in the eurozone , the imf , and the german government want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of good gdp data will make a trend . just as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and put more domestic demand on the rise – through the delayed path of fiscal austerity in germany . this is what makes greece both insolvent and a coercive restructuring of its public debt unavoidable . it is why spain and ireland are at serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on relatively sounder fiscal footing but has flat per capita income in ten years and very little structural reform , can not become complacency . indeed , it is why spain and ireland are at serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on relatively sounder fiscal footing , has flat per capita incomes in decades and little structural reform , can not get complacent .
still , the shame of le pen ’s newfound prominence may prove helpful if it pushes the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and resolve the country ’s problems . europe , for its part , has thought that the french political class would be the solution . but europe and the us could be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( l’exception francaise ) and launch the kind of serious reforms that engage the french electorate . jospin and chirac have done nothing to implement the large liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , which implies denying france the full benefits of liberalization at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all constraints on the french way to do business .
the modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and , indeed , national identity , are under threat . there was certainly much of this kind of sentiment in the 1930s , when the populist response to the great depression reflected it with the sinister forces of “ international capital ” ( norway ) . an alternative scenario suggests that such fears emancipate us from the real issue . modern economic growth still depends in nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway ’s as an exception ) . the people within places , like france and poland , who fear a national decline , are seeking to cast the blame for somebody beyond the eu .
his second name , abu mazen , is hardly a revolutionary name but reflects his conviction by naming a person like the father of his eldest son . abbas ’s son , mazen , led a communist-run agency call . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s ’s political corruption and micro-management , abbas had lost whatever chance he had to maintain the allegiance of fatah leadership , newly appointed pa officers , security personnel , and , most importantly , local militants . abbas ’s attempt at the primary to choose fatah candidates backfired , owing to scams and losers ’ refusal to honor the results . calling for national elections , while they were politically correct , amounted to political suicide for lacking any thought possible , and done very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline .
new york – for four decades , ledra street at the heart of nicosia has been a symbol of a divided cyprus divided . last week , i visited a ledra street crossing . slowly , the people without economic having mingled for 44 years have begun to renew their ties and redesign one another . it has been a window onto what the future may be bringing . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that divided capital to the north and south has opened .
but if the proposals being discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta at its level of integration and significance to the global economy . furthermore , the formation of the china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand the southward and stimulate asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join the group . such a turn of events would be the equivalent of establishing the east asian free-trade area that asean +3 envisioned a decade ago . if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might push ahead on the step-by-step path .
compare this with the treatment of antibiotic treatments of , say , urogenital infection , that lasts only a few weeks at most . as a result , compliance with tb drug therapy is particularly weak , paving the way for the onset of the multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) tb that it can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , it is grossly arduous , with good health care times of roughly two years , using a drug that is neither as efficient nor as benign as the canonical drug , and at costs , that will climb by a proportion of its 5100 . while this extra cost may be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , implying in- or inadequate treatment . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli , which is mdr .
of course , market forces also play a role , too , but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt system of campaign finance and its revolving door between the government and industry , politics is shaped by money . rising inequality , however , is not the inevitable solution , either . there are market economies that are doing better , in terms of both gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of citizens . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over all else but renders the discharge of student debt , regardless of how inadequate the education provided , enriches the bankers and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country where money-trumpian democracy is trumped , such legislation predictably frequent .
by contrast , former us secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton , and a prominent republican contender , donald trump , have opposed social-security reform and medicare . in fact , senator bernie sanders , clinton ’s democratic rival , is proposing to expand its unfunded liabilities . with so few us presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america is facing significant risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or a conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . either way , america would face the kind of growth-constraining tax increases and its limits on contributions that public investment can propel the country toward its future .
this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel have not done . the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but in each of these countries , the political discourse of all the democratic party ostracized these racist groups and parties ostracized them : british conservatives never enter an alliance with the brussels national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from their own party local leaders who fashioned the representatives of le pen . confronted with the electoral result of whether to rejoin the socialist democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they committed a faustian pact to haider . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( for one , it would be no chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even absent further legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit , implied by fiscal reform , would be to rise that to 97 % . but even a massive spending program like the $ 900 billion american recovery act of 2009 and reinvestment act of 2009 would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt-to-gdp ratio would make it harder to achieve than the debt-to-gdp ratio of 92 % . a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax reductions .
the african union , too , has responded , promptly . its peace and security council met , expressing the au ’s categorical rejection of any parties to the creation of a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process . its peace and security council met , and expressed the au ’s ’s ’s ’s categorical rejection of any parties to the creation of a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process . and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would “ hold on to those acting to thwart the democratic process and the will of the electorate liable to justify his actions . ” ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called on all parties to “ respect and implement ” the verdict of ivorian people as announced by an independent electoral commission .
seoul – has the world entered a new era in turmoil ? china ’s leaders have displayed their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly dismissing calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . indeed , the bitterness of the faustian bargain in iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its army might , even as “ “ red lines ” are crossed , but seemingly unwilling to shoulder any serious burdens to uphold its global leadership position . but , as long as america is no longer prepared to lead who will take its place ? american vacillating policy toward syria has certainly seemed to suggest this way .
our research shows that industrial policy has been a success in promoting a competitively competitive bioethanol industry in brazil . ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of current value-added fuel demand in the country , and petrobras , brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest firms , expects that share to rise to more than 80 % by 2020 . brazil has been trying to become energy self-sufficient in a way similar to its modern efforts by other countries . but it would n’t have worked , without the crucial role it played by its competition . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970 ’s soaring oil prices gave brazil an entirely new industry .
“ a child ’s creativeness and capacity to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report , “ and his whole mental world is impoverished . ” sad , their families are often the last to protest exploitation by their children . the ilo contends that children suffer greatly , when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ” pakistani parents occasionally maim their children to make them beguiling beggars . the indian fathers still repay the debts they need by committing their children to bonded labor .
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . through bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditure , which generated a $ 500 billion budget deficit , america will need to raise taxes and curb budget spending , whether or not bush is re-elected . at the same time , asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities . the annual us military budget of more than $ 150 billion since bush took office will be needed to cut in coming years in order to obtain this budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities .
to be sure , there have long been policy efforts to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global reserve currency . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ golden dinar ” as an answer to a us-based currency system . so far , although there have been no globally ruinous currency attacks outside the empire of cinematic fantasy . the most alluring alternative appears to have been the gold standard . russian theoreticians of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a fine metal .
if the attack persists , speculators can force a government to default on its debts unless one can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply . indeed , voilà – a successful “ short ” trade in good times . to be sure , a single short vendor can not “ make ” the price of an asset ( unless he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of speculators make that choice ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , they can force down its price , thereby forcing the yield ( the interest rate that the us government must pay ) . my gain for correctly accepting this bearish view is thus € 1.65 m ( $ 300 m ) , the € 9.1 m that i get by selling our bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i must pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 interest that i must pay goldman sachs after its six-month loan .
the slowdown in chinese economic growth this year was the result almost entirely of deliberate decisions to deleverage the us banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and roll back booming house prices through tightening monetary policy . all of these “ austerity ” policies can easily be softened or reversed . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift its economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . clear-eyed statements by policymakers , all the way up to xi , indicated that china will not permit another weakening of the economy next year , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or easing down on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening . to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand .
this was the age of rural blacksmith , the weaver , napoleon , and the cobbler . it was then exported to the rest of the world . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . in the eighteenth-century period , shipping technology improved enough to enable the emergence of global supply chains . african slaves were then used to grow cotton in the south united states , then shipped to english mills .
i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is ; instead , advanced culture has played none of the supposedly inspired “ wipe out ” the poisonous weeds campaign , the “ anti-rightist movement ” or the “ eliminate of demons and evil heresy . ” such obscurantism merely creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . is that “ invariably represented ” by the lone political party ? it need not be “ over-represented ” by the lone political party ? like a grassroots blade beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek light .
other leaders , from gambia ’s president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , spoke in exactly the same vein . in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was one of the first to do so . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when he signing a anti-gay bill in may 2014 . these official attitudes had caused significant suffering for african gays and lesbians . indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries is a painfully obvious case : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice .
china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . perhaps more important , they have an insufficient voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . still , the share of china , at around 30 % , appears to be just the largest among the 57 participating countries that could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decision-making . that underscores a major concern among development economists and international relations observers as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it transform china , brazil , and china , or will it pursue a core multilateral agenda in the way the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( adb ) ?
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund for chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in a more recent era , governments tended to underperform the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they typically predicted that , by slashing government spending by the dollar , it would reduce gdp by $ 50 in the short run ; according to blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions has been a decline of more than $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a vast gap , but also a perplexing finding : how can there be so much insecurity ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , economists actually know a lot about the implications of us fiscal policy , at least much more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it routinely assumed that the so-called “ “ “ “ “ “ “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp to changes in government spending – was stable and bigger than one . ”
for too long , city dwellers have used as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of playing the game . but , because the public is well-educated about concrete threats that nuclear weapons continue to make them appear to favor the cities where they live , that stance has become increasingly difficult to maintain . making matters worse , there have been suggestions about their real use of them . at the same time , people all over the world must stop considering one another ’s untrustworthy foe . us military planners who are serious about using nuclear weapons have probably received scant thought of those living in cities on their target lists .
furthermore , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of rising public frustration with the eu itself . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” ” the eu ’s mantra in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the socialist democrats ( epp ) . and the vast prosperity gap between the “ old ” ” and “ new predominantly eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . these groups proved to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given that most europeans are unconvinced that the worst was at hand . at the same time , the influence of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ northern spring ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” ” ” ” with france at the center ( but heading south ) , was visible as well .
today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , mainly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . they raise their spectacles , filled with a finest scotch that has been sprinkled with a running troubled powder . no , this is far rarer and well costlier : it is pulverized by the white rhino horn . not a gold powder , as the lesser moguls might offer or even a purest cocaine . just a half-century ago , white rhinos abounded in africa .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s ’s ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our safety , as is evident in the current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us that lesson the hard way , we must recognize that we can not quell the fires of fanaticism through force alone . in today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our security , as now seems clear in the current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us that lesson the hard way possible , we must recognize that we can not quell the fires of fanaticism through force alone .
this year ’s nobel prize in the economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , alongside herself for our work on the `` asymmetry of information . '' for just two hundred years , economists had been using simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – that is , that all participants share well and transparent understanding of the relevant factors . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information can have profound effects on how the economy behaved . they recognized that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate information imperfections , it would be akin to a world of imperfect information . what is that it works about , and why did we commit it ?
under the threat of a full collapse of the whole system , a safety net aimed at helping hapless individuals meet exigencies of life – spread generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies . the us is used to think of the government transferring money from the well off to the world ’s poor . never having so much money paid off from so many to so few . the bankers ’ pursuit of the self-interest ( greed ) has not brought forth the well-being of society ; it has not even served their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve the homeowners , who lose their homes , the workers who lost their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or their taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out their banks .
this approach would adhere to the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions to russia last month that ukraine must be allowed “ to chart its own path . ” what is significant is that the us constitution requires a super-majority , rather than , say , the easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament , adopted in march 2010 , must join a military alliance . the practical result , ukraine remains as unaligned in its military and security terms , would reflect the will of ukraine as a whole . above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully .
under any viable long-run arrangement , entitlement levels relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( the disability mainly ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in the need . in institutional terms , long-term reform should aim at shifting to a single-payer pay-as-you-go ( payg ) pension system , as has been done in chile , away from the status quo , pay-as-you-go pension systems . the public should understand the critical difference between a one-time transfer to old workers at the outset of the market reform and long overdue pension policies . in the years ahead , the most important fiscal task facing east european and nis governments will be to reduce the size of social spending to the more reasonable part of gdp . the political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shift public attention from the looming fiscal crisis .
but that may well follow a second phase in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and the concentration of industry itself are beginning to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little assurance concerning the timing of this scenario . but that may well be followed by a second phase in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and the concentration of industry begin to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . and in the third phase , the potential onset of higher inflation may catch up with policymakers and investors by surprise , producing over-reactions that make bad situations worse . but , on the other hand , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their inflationary outlook is subject to a wider array of dynamic possibilities than previously thought so far .
the un ’s manifold agendas for peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism are bound to be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-self-contained institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed in the field to crack departmental barriers and confront appropriate challenges . the same goes for implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising above 2º celsius . the groups would operate within a common mandate through all un agencies , and be led by un operations directors in each country . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and on all levels of the un agenda , rather than only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues .
with an estimated 268 million people in extreme poverty in its latest survey since 2011 , india is home to the largest of the planet ’s poor . for india , the cost adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion in exchange-rate provided by the united states . the most expensive countries where the end of poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in its latest survey since 2011 , india is home to the largest , extremely absolute number of impoverished people on the planet . each is on an average of 38 cents per day of extreme poverty .
more fiscal space can be created through improved governance and strengthened fiscal foundations , and for the poorest countries by achieving additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , with oda undictated by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investments in infrastructure and human development . finally , the institutional reform has encompasses more than the creation of markets and guaranteeing property rights . in recent decades , by contrast , macroeconomic policy in much of the developing world has become more pro-cyclical , largely aggravating international financial markets and driving commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-term orientation toward an economic policy that constrains long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth .
cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to point that the united states started a major campaigned against the sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in its inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . but now the increase in demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or plummeting . similarly , european leaders are needed to get serious about europe ’s ’s ’s ’s cocaine problem . the “ white lady ” ” is seducing a steadily increasing number of europeans ; and remaining under a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . coca cultivation has been slashed by one-quarter over the last five years , and seizures of cocaine have nearly doubled .
berkeley – it has been one more than year since donald trump was elected us president , and america ’s system of democratic institutions is clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ get the right ” ; while trust in the us congress has plummeted below 9 % . among congressional republicans , particularly “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism is undermining the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . according to some pessimists , the american constitution was not designed to address the challenges of a country so sharply distributed income , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments remain trusted by the majority of voters , with power under the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution , to strengthen its democratic institutions .
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to embrace business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , a country that is weary and near an lunatic despot . this is particularly true when there is a chance of rescue or making its money . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s ’s police forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been instructing uniforms from a benighted town of dzherzinsky , named after the father of red terror and former soviet kgb founder , feliks dzherzinsky . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner on the same occasion that the eu is trying to isolate him as an international pariah , europe ’s hypocrisy stands naked . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound .
bond yields in southern europe rose , with a pervasive feeling of apprehension and fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation to pull the european banking system back from the brink . finally , there has been decisive action in december . there would have been a fiscal treaty that furthers the stability and growth pact , as well as entail automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to these rules . but the political leadership was sorely lacking . at last , there was a moment of decisive action in december .
but there are limits to stock exchanges , particularly in brazil . an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s novo mercado – the shares exchange ’s special-listing segment , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies – supports this view . in the absence of robust courts , they can not sue to enforce their regulations . their only recourse is to squeeze the recalcitrant firms out of the swap . an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s novo mercado region , a stock exchange that provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view .
new york – january is traditionally a time-out for assessing the earlier year ’s developments to anticipate what the new one has in store . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , iran could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . sadly , while the us may be at some turning points for the better politically , the data that emerged just over the past month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-run prospects . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not gain war .
to be sure , the simultaneous shift in a handful of countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education , with major concomitant productivity gains , could sap the us economy ’s competitiveness from which it made no such effort . but , again , that scenario contradicts a traditional trade dynamic , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . in fact , proliferation of highly specialized universities throughout europe has so far failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and converting comprehensive universities into specialized institutes of science and technology in the us , and communist china has done nothing to avert an economic disaster in those economies . but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardships for another .
reform does not require an impossible state of emergency , as it often has been argued . first , all were the result of a profound civilizational crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , high inflation , and devaluation . second , a change of government through the election motivated reforms and gave them a sense of democratic legitimacy . no profound reform was likely without a profound crisis that lasted until 2008 . third , there is a need for a strong leader for reform .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , us corporate cash holdings in the united states leapt quarter following a quarter , reaching its all-time highs , earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . nonetheless , one looks at it , the corporate sector in advanced economies in general , and america in particular , is just as strong as it has been in many years . non-financial firms have touted the mix of resilience and agility , which reflect sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that have yet to confront adequately the legacy of over-leverage . but , rather than deploying their plentiful cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets , which they have been extremely hesitant to do since the eruption of the global financial crisis , many firms have so far preferred ( or pressured by activist investors ) to cede it the way to shareholders . moreover , because firms have dramatically improved their operating efficiency and lengthened the maturities on their debt , they still need a lot less precautionary savings than they have in the past .
from an american perspective , indonesia presents an attractive alternative to russia , one that has recently vied with venezuela for " america 's leadership in decline " ” ” ” ” cheering partition . the same applies to turkey , with its robust banking sector , thriving domestic markets , growing importance to middle east politics , and to energy policy , nato membership , the european union bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps the most compelling case for all is that of indonesia , the world 's largest muslim state , with a burgeoning middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an emerging economy that has tended to be stellar twin in asia despite the onset of global recession . purely from the standpoint of its economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose chief liability is the danger that a misguided twin regime to the north will collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . indonesia , moreover , has shown consternation resilience .
a good example is the allegation that “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their intrinsic military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , trials of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and entering the war against any of the major powers to protect a suffering minority would surely trigger a much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in terms of international relations , with states that place much of an stress on their favor are extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . and , worst of all , they are likely to be perceived as being soft on those whom , like egypt ’s current military-backed rulers , engaged in mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens . no state that aspires to win support or collaborate on the others can afford to be seen fit with an unambiguous double standard .
already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to european union markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” commercial regime . that may bode well for a corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia . in fact , the last thing cambodia needs is at risk of economic reprisal for assistance from chinese firms to craft us tariffs . the ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there was a fined america is encouraging suspicions that hun sen ’s us government will continue to turn a blind eye . yet that seems precisely what hun sen ’s us government plans to do .
the global economy risks becoming stuck at the “ “ new mediocre ” point of a prolonged period of slow growth and feeble job creation . more than 200 million people are jobless , and more than three million of them are young people , out of poverty . by contrast , some important economies are still fighting deflation . to break free from economic stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . if the measures agreed by the leaders assembled at the g-20 in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income .
what sort of relations should nato have with its partners ? albright ’s report attempts to address these questions in a balanced way . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction validated by non-proliferation and arms-control treaties . it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between the “ out of areas operation ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . so , should nato undergoing further simultaneous transformation and enlargement ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior was smart and delusional . japan worries that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence may be weakened as long as the american decreases its nuclear power to parity with china . japan officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but it relies instead on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid being subject to its nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . moreover , it is a mistake to believe that an extended us deterrence will depend on parity in its number of nuclear weapons . northern koreans have violated their agreement , conscious that the us , china , the country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned about the regime ’s regime collapse in north korea , and therefore the threat of chaos on its border .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america at least , two schools of thought pressed for more financial deregulation – that is , to repel the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the other , broadly speaking , that the democratic party was rather more complicated , set against four observations : · back in the late 1990s , in america at least , two schools of thought pressed banking for more and less financial deregulation – that is , to repel the separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks such a bad idea right now , why did it no longer last ? a first-rate school of thought , broadly , was that financial regulation is wrong , because all regulation is bad .
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course , but this should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even have persuaded some angry , very poor trump supporters , to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about helping the far left behind in the rust belt cities and the rural hinterlands . it is now grotesque that so many of those who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies remain convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” the democrats ’ core message for the next two years ought to be that , in a us plutocracy , everyone else loses . it is to be grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies remain persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ”
but iranians responded by escalating their own regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford a full-scale war and a middling oil-price spike that would result from it . but neither wanted to be the “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and enrich the other side . still , without a deal by the year trump ended , a clash will become likely . similarly , trump seemed to think that he can bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . as the game ticks down , a poor outcome becomes more likely .
over the past two months , the scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , the civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community have signaled a change of attitude : “ thou need the immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not the us , ” not the us . but the scaf now seems to have realized that in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant foreign immunity from it without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals . as a result , there is a growing belief within scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both toothless and insufficient . with the emergence of political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and a lack of security having dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition , turkey has dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . and yet the scaf now appears to have realized that , in a leaderless one , no civilian politician can grant itself immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals .
paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . that requires a weaker dollar to make american goods more attractive to foreign buyers , making it increasingly expensive for american consumers and making foreign goods more expensive for american consumers . by the end of the decade , america will have to pay an amount equivalent to more than one-third of its personal-income taxes ’ revenues , simply to pay the interest on its national debt . in the us , foreign investors now hold more than half of that debt , which is still in surplus . higher debt-service costs require higher us tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and lowers the rate of economic growth .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; the moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west is that he will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s significant problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and regional conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , lebanon , and palestine . a policy of opening the ground would thus quickly push the regime ’s existence at risk . iran , too , is a key player in navigating the hotspots of the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from domestic politics and questions of domestic liberty , choice among the major candidates will hinges on the question of whether iran should pursue wider international integration .
if ever there were a country destined to be the poster child of the new economic orthodoxy , mexico was it . its exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and inward foreign direct investment tripled . but where it counts – in terms of total factor productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . perhaps the most visible gain has come from the external front . since 1996 , per capita economic growth in the united states averaged less than 1.5 % , and overall factor productivity has stagnated or declined .
a fundamental problem , for example , is that the character of global trade is constantly evolving , with existing agreements having only limited capacity for adjustment . services like education , banking , accountant , and insurance accounts for an ever greater share of global output ( now about two-thirds ) , and further expansion requires major shifts in current agreements . and bilateral or regional trade deals may chip away at some of the barriers in the current global system . after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . even if asia as a whole succeeded by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , mostly in africa , can realistically export only their agriculture and textiles sectors .
most immediately , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in different ways , producing signals that travel to the spinal cord and away from the brain . for many years , researchers believed that such signals traveled along several well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain called the thalamus . from there , scientists believed , signals went on to the piece of the brain ’s cortex that managed the body awareness , and somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experiences . a contemporary unmedical writer has described qualities of intense pain as including extreme displeasantness , a capacity for annihilating complicated mindsets and other feelings , a capacity to destroy language , and robust resistance in objectification . she reminds physicians that , for individuals suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else involves powerful negative emotions .
the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists , jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and an adviser , respectively ) , had led the way . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that set in motion the retrenchment that would ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements as the global norm . then it was turning out to be the organization of economic cooperation and development . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists performed abrupt volte-face , adopting globally with financial liberalization . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon led by michel camdessus , another frenchmen serving as the governor of france ’s bank under mitterrand .
within 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from the screen , 40 army units in algeria declared their allegiance . the next day , de gaulle ’s face attracted it , but was doing so with a sense of urgency and full of power . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , it must be said , by the fumbling of the insurgents – that established the primacy of the state . the defeat of the army revolt was the first that the paris republican authority asserted over a pieds noirs who abetted the emergence of the “ fourth republic . ” men at the barricades were persuaded to leave their knesset ; the insurrectionary leaders were either detained or dismembered to spain .
did the israelis really want a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of calm politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel into the international criminal court in exchange for war crimes ? if not , then why are such a ham-fisted force on both sides ? israel appears to be making the same mistake . it has proven repeatedly to be incapable of breaking its own morale and turning them against their own leaders , however appalling the regime . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered him its lifeline .
the un will play a central role in rebuilding a working government in that country , as well as in coordinating the humanitarian assistance of the afghan people . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only begun quickly on the ground , but has actually led to a diplomatic breakthrough as well . while these seem to be a grab-bag of accomplishments , they highlight a single message : the world community is finding new ways to collaborate , even against a backdrop of ongoing terrorism and a global recession . the un ’s increasing role in international institutions under the un umbrella gives us more confidence that disputes can be resolved peacefully and even reasonable , with substantial doses of scientific expertise , as in the un ’s own climate change treaty . the un ’s increasing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy above a global struggle against terrorism and is helping to placate many countries that this is a genuine international effort , not just america acting alone .
with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders such as hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new to offer in the world ’s ballot marketplace , one that differs substantially from what is commonly called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no more a battle between different designs in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that may well raise voters ’ emotions . here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the color of the electoral landscape has correlates closely with one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics as a result of its “ financiarisation ” . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year looks like an african soccer match among the country ’s large teams , where one candidate ’s supporters and the other are merely distinguishing between the present-day colors , given that the strongest teams that embrace the game ’s rules , and even its tactics , are similar .
if news journalists are using their platforms to inform the world of the dangers that they and their colleagues face , the world will need to listen as well . violence against journalists has historically been an issue that has stayed behind headlines . but the most important changes must come from within the media industry itself . because journalists ’ safety is directly influenced by news organizations by staff , freelancers , and audiences , these organizations should report on the topic . with attacks on journalists increasing , the old approach – a prideful silence – no longer makes sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieved the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of cutting the world ’s share of the world ’s poor to half its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes are undermining the enduring threat of extreme poverty worldwide . after all , extreme poverty is not an unchanging attribute to a rigid group ; it is actually a condition of endangering the lives of billions of vulnerable . despite their weaknesses , it is helpful to capture an improved understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but the world bank ’s annual extreme poverty line of $ 1.25 a day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) to measure progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal is not the only relevant threshold .
the outlook for 2014 is similarly dampened by longer-term constraints . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; persistently high unemployment ; persistently high and rising public-debt levels ; a slowdown in unit labor costs ( which a robust euro does n’t help ) ; and an exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and the kind of pro-growth reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will materialize too slowly . indeed , there is the looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the deflationary impact of years of underinvestment on human and physical capital . and the interest-rate differentials of politicians and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending in check .
more immediately , to get gas to the market in europe and elsewhere , gas liquefaction plant costing around € 10 billion worth of need , and israeli investors have already expressed interest in doing so . the sheer size of cyprus ’s presumably energy wealth , and the financing needed to develop it , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion ( $ 1.1 trillion ) to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but realizing this worth is a long-term proposition , one that has yet to be put on hold . but it has to put these figures in the eu ’s gloomy global energy picture – something about the continuing failed debt negotiations .
as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with a discipline rather than their country ’s profligacy . syriza is hardly alone in greece in accusing the eu and its country ’s woes . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are content to oblige . thus , most television channels speak of a bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , a result of a neoliberal dogma . new democracy and pasok are doing a lot of the same , invading the eu , “ speculators ” , and hedge funds – anyone who might divert the public ’s attention from its responsibility for the crisis .
but america ’s diminished leverage can not match that of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” after all , it was tiny by qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements , egypt that has mediated the cease-fire of gaza , and turkey that is facilitating israeli-syrian talks . lebanon is far too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which is seeking to see their kurdish clients relieve the israelis from the burden of a “ lebanese front ” ” before their own grievances can be addressed . israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , together with that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a potent message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese train as much as it can . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel ’s end of occupation by the sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable autonomous military force that it has erected with iranian and syrian aid .
but , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflationary trends , rather than on the official unemployment rate and its implications , under traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s impending growth rate is very low ( about five percentage points ) , clarida , like powell , appears open to the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will permit somewhat stronger , non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should begin making below-target inflation within recessions and slow recoveries by making above-target inflation more sustainable in the medium term . and , though the review is still in its early stages , the fed already seems to have embraced the notion that it should allow inflation to exceed 2 % , without bringing it immediately to bear on tightening . along with it , these factors suggest that the fed could remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include those costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool off the plant ’s reactors ; the protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini in the global economy ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . on the top of this , there is the potential cost of health-care costs stemming from exposure to radioactivity . it is governments – and thus taxpayers and bondholders – that finance the nuclear plants . moreover , the supposed “ cost-saving ” ” ” ” of nuclear power never includes a price tag for providing direct and indirect governmental grants , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency cleanup and remediation of non-acted communities when disaster strikes – all again at taxpayers ’ expense . all of these stealth costs make the price of a nuclear energy higher than that of a shift to renewables and efforts to improve energy efficiency .
but a clear system of engagement is indispensable . that , in turn , would run in a way that would counter to the kind of thing that universities stand for . the most important principle to uphold is the distinction between being heard and honoring someone . as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by presenting the trump camp as yet another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” otherwise , they would stiffen the debate .
new york – like the inmate on the death row earlier this month , the euro has received the next last-minute left of greece ’s execution . it will survive a little longer , and it will want to do just that . at that summit , there was good news : european leaders at last grasped that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to the banks to rescue peripheral sovereigns and to the sovereigns to rescue the banks , and will not work by the banks themselves . markets are celebrating , just as they have been after each of four previous “ euro crisis ” summits in greece – until they are coming to understand that even a fundamental problem has so far been addressed . likewise , they now recognize that the bailout loans that a new lender of seniority over other creditors exacerbate the positions at which private investors will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – germany ’s constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited ruling on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” ( omt ) program . thousands of germans have appealed to the omt program against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the well-functioning european union treaty that bars monetary financing of indebted eurozone governments , and that it imposes substantial risk on german citizens as taxpayers . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that tightens the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it may have done , the court has asked the european court to hold its opinion . the court has now proclaimed that it completely endorses the prosecutors ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has authorized the ecb to purchase if necessary , unlimited sums of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds have provided the affected countries subscribe to the european rescue fund , the european stability mechanism .
when investment is in upstream core research , the spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes amount to a social payoff . and the tax on capital gains has dropped by more than 50 % since the 1980s . in order to build support for capital-intensive public investment , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by channeling profits toward a public-innovation fund to fund the next wave of technology . for example , some of the government ’s profits in tesla could have recovered through equities ( or royalties ) and used them to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra . but other cases may require the creation of alternative incentives .
if the ecb ’s next leaders do not meet them , the euro itself will be in jeopardy . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the ecb and the european council will each have a new president and managerial teams each , and the european parliament will have seated a new generation of politicians who have failed to do so in the last decade of compromises and reform . by contrast , germany will have held elections in a political environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . clearly , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination must . still , there is a broad consensus that the euro will need more than monetary policies to ensure continued growth and stability .
all of us heard the accusations that russia covertly had used social media to sway electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , greece , and , most famously , across the united states . in fact , these regimes began pouring out of social media for their own ends . in the case , most of the social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership , with traditional political and military establishment having retained the upper hand . we should recall earlier accusations by russians of the west ’s role in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgian . facebook has estimated that russian content on its web , including labor posts and paid ads , reaches 126 million americans , around 40 % of the nation ’s population .
it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei also regrets permitting the volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful about that choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , seeking to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . but he is not immune from miscalculation . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad based khamenei ’s financial and political backing on his return to the presidency .
but it remains to be seen whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests . and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that must rethink their approach to the world . america must do likewise . at the same time , the point is not to have china . similar questions apply to india and brazil .
some people work harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully , or simply being lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . but i do not see which alternative political-economic arrangements could make individual people of relative wealth closely correspond to their relative moral or other merit . nor should we worry a lot that some people become richer than others . but on the level of individual societies , i believe that inequality does loom as a serious , political-economic problem . the problems that can be addressed include poverty and social-insurance — the provision of a safety net — not of inequality .
there is also some friction among the different regulators within the us , and we certainly need more coordination across national boundaries , including with europe . more broadly , however , her perspective is that we need the fsoc to get the job done , to look for and evaluate all kinds of potentially systemic risk . this needs to be accomplished as a technical matter rather than as parts of the political process . but the real danger is that powerful corporate lobbies working through the members of congress are pushing back hard on both the dprk and its mandate . not everyone at the sec is really as sensible as stein .
iohannis may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association in polish voters with the german-polish hohenzollern kings who ruled romania wisely and at least 80 years . and , indeed , upon learning of his victory , iohannis promptly paid a visit to king michael i ( the hohenzollern prince , until he renounced the title back in 2011 ) . the final factor driving the iohannis ’s victory has been the younger generation , in which links with the west world have imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania . indeed , in bucharest ’s university square , the celebration of his life of 1989 ; that was the sound of an awakened electorate was an awareness of his earlier blunders and a fresh start . when the results were announced , their euphoria was indeed overwhelming .
education in the social sciences and humanities is especially deficient , owing to a lack of investment across these disciplines and over-political control in its curricula . as a result , china graduation from us colleges and universities has learned relatively little about the outside world in fields like the anthropocene , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will be unable to produce enough highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , and skewed toward a rote learning society at the expense of basic analytical and critical-thinking skills . unless and until china reforms its ossified system , the country will be unable to produce sufficient highly trained talent to compete in the world ’s best and brightest .
such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . at the same time , the export expansion delivered growth in that century , import-substitution and domestic outward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will drag each other ’s rise productivity growth . finally , global economic conditions will compete with an even greater restructuring upon japan . japan has committed itself to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i am convinced that the west can learn a lot about what to do by studying policies that have been pursued in the world ’s only two middle east developments , moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully avoidance became prey to islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is the noteworthy given its closeness with the violence-prone algeria accord . both countries have combined massive gains in secular educational attainment with rapid job creation in producing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued a rapid , egalitarian development . the egalitarian evolution of this sort is the only viable answer to the moslem world ’s moslem world . it nonetheless provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it does not supply an ideology compelling enough to compete with a fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the moslem world .
new haven – yet another in a long strand of negative inflationary surprises is at hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) , which excludes food and energy , has advanced just when it was due . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi essentially became unchanged , holding , at just 1.7 percentage points above its year-earlier level . for an american economy widely supposed to be bouncing back from the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes just as a staid awakening occurs , especially to the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all of the stops to extract inflation back toward its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues in japan .
it also stands in sharp contrast to the present-day religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar hashemi with an inquisition that hindu heresy in europe is at an all-time high . our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west should also be rethought . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp . nevertheless , following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , the colonization of much of asia , and the wars in opium in china , their relative positions had been shifting . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen observes the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to that of the 20 th century of buddhist emperor ashoka .
britain and japan appear to have followed the same pattern : finance first , to be protected institutions later . yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might have expected : it was only after financial markets had developed that had held up those with stakes in them in the press for stronger legislation to protect investors . japan did not have a single corporate law until its complex business finance started developing in the late nineteenth century . its core safeguard legal institution for us outside finance , its federal securities laws , did n’t fall in place until the 1930s – decades after us financial markets grew to finance america ’s economic rise . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational had to do was in place before financial markets started operating .
in greece , on the other hand , the gap was mostly fiscal and drag on consumption , not investment . insufficient spending was never an issue , either . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s per capita gdp growth averaged just 3.8 % , the other fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . but , by 2007 , greece spent more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , europe ’s largest such gap , more than twice that of spain and 55 % , even higher than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , though , the gap reflected a construction boom ; eurozone accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages .
well-run democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when the issues on hand are technical and miss distributional concerns ; when a log-rolling would otherwise result from suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discrediting of the future costs . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to policymakers , and they must provide the accounting when they miss the goal . true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by a lower standard of discretion in elected representatives . it may be up to elected politicians to identify the inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve that goal are left to developing-country technocrats . above all , independent central banks provide an important illustration of that .
first , it is important to realize that a strongly and overly volatile currency is not only a central bank ’s problem of repair . while the central bank bears a good component of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of its government , most notably from the finance ministry . that means large responsibility for the fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus , which is high enough to generate the space necessary for a real exchange-rate depreciation . preserving a competitive currency requires increasing domestic saving in proportion to investment or reducing national expenditure relative to income . otherwise , future gains in competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation .
one can be reasonably certain , though , that jolie ’s decision will change the roles available to her as an actress . jolie has refused to treat mastectomy as horrifying or tragic , or just that they make her “ less ” female ” in any way . as enthusiastically as the worldwide mass media got her own choice , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as a woman – let alone physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as a fantasy of sex object . there is something of a “ narrative ” – a kind of sex symbol sacrifice her fetishized breasts for their children of cause , with her husband staying on by her side – that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . but the true significance of jolie ’s narrative is its context : waves of women and men , in very different settings around the world insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , apprehension , or blame .
some kind of depreciation may be manageable for most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if the domestic currency loses too much value too rapidly . it is this danger that sets a practical and political limit to a flexible exchange rate . private-sector ballooning problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting downward pressure on public finances would compel austerity , undermining consumer demand , and inflicting more damage on firms ’ balance sheets . in order to prevent such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate must be managed – and in ways that depend on the country that are given concrete circumstances . large , net central-bank reserves can help to ease the process .
at the same time , the limits of free speech are not simply a legal one . people tend to be fired , on commercial grounds , if something they say is offensive to a large number of people . free speech is more firmly protected by law in the us than elsewhere in the world . but barr ’s cancellation of barr ’s show was , of course , not a legal choice . now , entertainment companies or the mass media have become sensitive to the public ’s opinions as well .
new delhi – in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced the arab league ’s human development report , writing in its behalf of the united nations development agenda and the arab league for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key actions , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as its economic and social advancement . it has also been noted within the muslim world as well . by disturbing trends – such as an demographics youth “ bulge ” has combined with a high rate of youth unemployment to reach nearly 40 % in some places – highlight potentially explosive socioeconomic conditions . none of them has a muslim majority , nor are they sustained .
then came the end of the cold war , when all europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . from the perspective of security , europe remained dependent on the u.s. . on the economic and technological fronts , however , europeans regained their sovereignty . institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu , respectively . but , due to the world balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their actual influence .
he soon sponsored the unveiling of the sumo bust assassinated israeli premier yitzak rabin at brasov in transylvania . he announced that he had employed eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor to handle his own presidential campaign . “ jews ” were not his enemy any more , he declared ; they even worked for it . ” for the occasion , tudor pored a yarmulke to discuss his “ philo-semitism ” ( that is , by more than two hours , tudor poked a yarmulke to discuss his “ philo-semitism ” ) . but tudor did not stop with the sort of prolix
and independent investigative journalists in africa have frequently exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . those with power , however , know how to fight back – and they pull back their punches . as a result , in many african countries , they are compromised by the free press , repressed , and even dismantled . in kenya , for example , prominent local newspapers report that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the national ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from the national youth service . further investigations into nys have revealed more corrupt deals , encouraging kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country has builds a more business-oriented economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( as opposed to the state ) that identifies and promotes dds . but , because the government determines how to offload its massive stock of equities in an orderly fashion , it needs to ensure that such efforts are financed by equity , not leverage , thereby advancing market equilibrium and resilience . nonetheless , as china has already begun to build an increasingly innovative manufacturing sector and a internet-fueled online retail sector , the state may still have a role to play in fostering innovation . china ’s ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress-testing test should be viewed as part of that process to leapfrog the next stage of economic reform .
rigid adherence to constitutional provisions in any such eventuality is imperative . here , the absence of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair elections . the recent attack on the globovision , venezuela ’s only survivor an independent station , stands out in this respect . its abrupt departure due to illness might produce a political vacuum , one that might become conducive to the power grab of one form or another , such as a military coup . it is crucial that the opposition can freely airdrops its message and target prospective voters – a point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it attempts to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to voters .
throughout the 1990s , private investors looked to large , exquisite central banks as cash cows , long money , and short on financial acumen . george soros once spawned billions of dollars of the bank of england in just an hour . his underlying strategy was the gold standard : a bet against any central bank that attempts to defend an inconsistent macroeconomic policy . the traders prevailed in barely any battle ; of course , they did not spell by force . their underlying strategy was the norm : a bet against any central bank attempting to defend against inconsistent macroeconomic policies .
yet , contrary to expectations , us household consumption growth has remained lackluster and firms have not clamped down on investment . still , contrary to us expectations , growth in household consumption has remained lackluster and businesses have not clamped down on investment . but there is another problem : in their homes and newspapers , feeling excitement about the future is lacking , notwithstanding all of the gee-whiz gadgetry that is now enveloping them . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cool winter – lies in the fact that everyone should be seen through . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s per capita gdp barely surpassed that attained at the end of last year , with much of the increase driven by goods produced but not yet sold .
moreover , bringing germany ’s ’s digital infrastructure – particularly its broadband internet networks – up to international standards will require major investment , which an enhanced regulatory framework might help spur . at the same time , regulatory reform is needed to bolster support for startup firms , an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in difficulties that such firms face in acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to tackle financing bottlenecks more apparent than in germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed , more than € 30 trillion or 1 % of gdp will need to be invested annually in network infrastructure , a renewable-energy generation that integrates heat and power systems and storage technologies in the coming decades . while some of these funds will come from public budgets , the vast majority will be forced to provide the private sector .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states in becoming the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted the size of china ’s economy that it would overtake that of an american in terms of purchasing-power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china has actually overtaken the american people in its ppp terms in 2010 . the purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income using a set of international prices applied to any economy .
the american might be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy ; but its oil is a kind of fungible commodity , with the american economy remaining susceptible to shocks from a sudden shift in world prices . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or some blockage of the strait of hormuz , could still inflict harm on america and its allies . but one should not jump to its conclusions , either . the balance between us energy imports and exports is only the first approximation of us independence .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . the amazon and indonesian rainforests are running rampant , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , toronto , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for whole populations . the targeted killing by the united states by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not maintain a war with iran .
but this does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery anytime soon . striking bottom is no reason to abandon the strong action taken to revitalizing the global economy . the bottom may be near as soon as , perhaps by the end of the year . that downturn is inherently complex : along with what has been accompanied by a financial crisis , the us economy was hit hard . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumer binge was the engine of global growth .
but when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it has . in seizing the opportunities created by globalization , firms have so far neglected the developed-world workforce that they are leaving behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . tackling the world ’s ’s ’s ecological and ecological challenges , together with improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , such as that i oversaw in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and britain ’s government . but it will also demand the involvement of a business community . in my own career , i saw firsthand that business-competition growth in a globalizing world may do far more to tackle extreme poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone .
and , because it would overturn the result of the 2016 referendum , such a step would necessitate a fresh plebiscite pitching remain against a no-deal brexit . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics would spur his discredited opponents into overcoming their disparity in order to suspend a no-deal brexit . but that would be an incendiary move . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center has been squeezed out of british politics . many leavers would view this as an anti-democratic coup .
in order to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensuring that the full potential of sdg 14 is realized . together , the ocean has endured decades of abuse and neglect . the us has funded its devastation , with no consideration for the consequences . it has treated them as a free-for-all bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet . such a agent must be given sufficient resources for the job .
those groups were dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . when crops failed , many farmworkers and agricultural workers laid low by the severely burden of debts ( often owed at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit “ suicide , ” as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . daily wage workers , traditionally paid at cash , lost their jobs to millions because the replacement currency had not been printed at reasonable quantities . that is the past year in which official rural suicides are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have grown since then . indeed , the bjp government ’s greatest sacrifices for agriculture have been the country ’s smaller-scale farmers , as well as landless farm labor .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that function : the extinction rate . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive , irreversible environmental impact . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , the number could be ten or perhaps even 100 more unknown animal , plant , or funes . with six billion humans and calculating – and our individual consumption has grown – we face enormous challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . for this reason , some colleagues and i have calculated the rate at which bird species became “ extinct ” in the recent past , and the rate at which they are likely to become extinct in the future .
indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computation per unit of energy on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than even the best man-made machines . with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture seems to be reaching its limit , as power consumption soars and transmission lag from components becomes ever increasingly burdensome . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output ; according to mark mills , the ceo of the united nations digital electric power . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach . and , finally – perhaps most importantly – they allow their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that would have been impossible to discover through traditional means .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a common deposit insurance system for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the danger of a run on banks in times of crisis . while this argument may be true , critics emphasizes mismatch on risk , owing to the highly leveraged buy-in of some countries ’ balance sheets . in order to address this risk mismatch , and move ahead with the plan , balance sheets will need to be cleansed before they contemplate the next step . whereas the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries stands at just 2 % , the most widely published international monetary fund statistics , from last april , show rates of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to the pressure from the european union and the united states to free her , or to forces determined to exclude her from politics forever . that sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the winner takes all – to loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . until recently , ukraine ’s leaders were accustomed to becoming more efficient means than prison for dealing with an indomitable adversaries . in 2000 , for example , georgiy gongadze ’s journalist was kidnapped and beheaded after publishing online reports on high-level government corruption . she is in prison , because she has lost that power .
for innovations is what generates wealth and employment , despite -- or , rather , because of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by boosting demand for their commodity exports . this virtuous circle is still viewed by globalization 's enemies as actually a vicious one , encouraging exploitation by the poor and vulnerable . no doubt , there is a strong case for establishing universal , impartial claim of values . it is here that the questions about the universal principles of justice and human rights are entering the discussions .
like italy , japan was on the frontlines during the cold war . that is why abe was the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may ’s rush to congratulate trump on himself in may 2017 . but the post-1945 democracy that americans still enjoy is hindered by american interference . in some important respects , japan has benefited immensely from being under america ’s own wing , and it has become a postwar constitution that is not only a pacifist one , but more democratic than anything the country had in the past , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of speech . constitutionally , unable to participate in military adventures , other than in highly paid goods producer during america ’s different asian conflicts , japan , rather like western europe , could concentrate on re-building its industrial power .
the economics profession bears part of the blame for this . nobel prize winners like edward prescott do not have a business conversation about the merits of tax cuts , without indicating that a tax cut , accompanied by spending increases , is not a tax cut at all , but , rather , a tax shift toward the future – and a tax shift that raises risks and discourages the accumulation process . all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by television , print , and internet journalists . but much of the problem stems from an under-briefer , undereducated , and an incurious press corps . aside from the small number of good narratives in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone reading or listening to english-language media coverage of the campaign may have taught anything unique or relevant to the question of whose economic policies have probably been better for america .
so far , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement for any successful national movement . fayyad is the first palestinian leader who did not emerge from the fatah movement , and may yet to comprehend what other palestinian leaders have failed , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the united states , the united kingdom , the united kingdom ) succeeded in delivering the statehood that a people can achieve only through his own agency , which zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” fayyad is the first palestinian leader not to emerge from the fatah movement , and may thus understand what other palestinian leaders have failed , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . thus far , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea also must alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the korean peninsula ’s future . any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the korean peninsula ’s future . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom , in order to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china under the ming dynasty , has fought alongside korea against japan . for centuries , china has feared that the peninsula could become part of a encirclement chain or serve as an incursion route .
to be sure , the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . but it is a slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be resolved with conventional policy responses . in fact , according to acronymically well-identified institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or change massive but erratic numbers of human jobs . so disruptions to existing labor-driven patterns should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” ” ” by adaptation of education and social-security systems to an automation-driven job market . at the same time , embracing new technology is viewed as indispensable for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success .
at the same time , every nation must develop strategies that offer researchers and technologists local employment opportunities . first , develop , sustain , and utilize local capacities and management . developing the training of scientific and technological capabilities is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . yet the ultimate impact of science and technology depends on all three factors . so african nations need to invest in areas like science and technological learning and skills .
and that is precisely why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade from their perspective . they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and a full overhaul of its governance structures and a full overhaul of its governance structures . the code of conduct on the field , where we expect players to give all of their full rules , which are swiftly enforced through independent referees , is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . indeed , fifa is as complex as any large , multi-tier private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that . in this sense , fifa is no special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations worldwide are expected to adhere to that code of conduct .
the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often laying off large numbers of staff members , particularly their foreign bureaus . in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by 20 % since 2001 . in the west , young people have mostly dispensed with the onstream physical morning newspapers , catching up on the news whenever they chose to do so whenever they elect , make the products of tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . as advertising revenues have been vacuous by facebook ’s internet giants and google , the fact is that newspapers ’ earnings have shrunk . indeed , as advertising revenues have been vacuzed by facebook and google ’s internet giants , newspapers ’ earnings have plunged .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after its taliban coup of 1973 , and iran following its 1979 revolution . during the 1990s bosnian war , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people , a challenge at any time , far fewer during a period of profound economic crisis . but things still turned out well : bosnian migrants fared roughly as the swedes that received them and ended up enriching our societies . in the new century , the pain of refugees has increasingly come from the middle east and the horn of africa . for decades , swedish industries relied on immigrant workers .
google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . another study , by the boston consulting group , points to the fact that many small , export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux countries , the baltic and nordic countries – sit well above america ’s in so-called “ e-intensity , ” which covers it infrastructure , online access , along with firms , consumers , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . at the same time , foreign firms are racing to take advantage of european tech talent . one-third of those firms acquired the us tech company at the beginning of 2015 . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion took place last year – compared to just $ 3.3 billion in 2014 , including sofia perbank ’s purchases of the british <UNK> tor-design firm arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchases of nanxp semiconductors .
the “ china dream ” is no exception . it risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . thus far , the public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade of government through the slogan , the chinese public wants substance . this presents xi with a real challenge .
in the us , president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low-priced us imports from china leaves romney ’s administration in the bind . against the advice of his council of economic advisers , trump is announcing across-the-board import tariffs on chinese exports . china ’s administration decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and avoid layoffs , including through direct financial aid by us exporters and by intervening in currency markets to weaken the renminbi . demonstrations start in major cities calling for trump to disengage from corruption among party officials .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial-reform reforms enacted in 2010 have not been stronger , and why there is so much opposition nowadays to effective implementation of the legislation ( such as a huge fight now occurring around the “ volcker rule ” that would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but the fact is that mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter , too . i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s ’s ’s ’s stance reflects any form of endemic corruption – payments made to individuals , or even to political campaigns . why , then , would the administration continue bending over backwards to become lenient toward top bankers under these circumstances ? and for that matter , it does n’t even seem to reflect the lobbying power of large financial players .
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its features in syria today . like bosnia , syria appears to be hopelessly divided among warring factions , and the level of violence appears unstoppable . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia , including the effort , in its own aftermath , to realize the concepts of universal righteousness has had a set of applications in the contemporary world . for one thing , the international community has been unable to achieve unity , much less agreement on a way forward . there are , of course , important differences as well .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to us foreign intervention , a unilateral us effort to maintain overwhelming offensive power would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . iran , for example , holds precision-strike capabilities – as well as far more hostile relations with america – would warrant its new american initiatives to counter growing security vulnerability . at the same time , some american strategists advocate a largely technological fix to this dilemma . their approach , a concept known as the “ air-sea battle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by precision-strike armageddon . formally , the pentagon does not favor a “ air-sea battle ” concept against any particular country .
should she assume an important role at this early stage ? should she assume an important role at this early stage ? her advice is to capture opportunities at work and also to find happiness in marriage and children . ms. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs . ms. mrs. watanabe has a female talent for seeing the tide turns .
though we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything on its own . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear safety standards and renew collaboration with the imf through its extended fund facility program . at the same time , the euroatom is assisting with a $ 585 million loan to finance repairs at ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s functioning nuclear installations . as a result , international support for our efforts is critical . a positive sign here is the european bank ’s recent decision to help reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) provide $ 215 million to phase out the eu ’s nuclear-power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky that will compensate the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy but a revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people wanted to make the difference , and amazingly they did : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . out of this sea of democratic emotion new political institutions were expected to emerge . instead , political life here was downgraded to a mere formality . while there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between the state and society resembles that of the soviet days .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . almost everyone was astonished at the revolts , even though its political and socioeconomic causation were highly familiar . as is often the case during crises that become systemic , we knew the phenomena but failed to grasp their interaction , partly because policymakers and analysts were reluctant to anticipate ruptures : the familiar are held , even when it is known to be stable . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard islam as an island of “ stability . ” ) but some early lessons for international politics in general , and for western , particularly european , foreign-policy status , merit serious consideration .
nonetheless , because china is the world ’s net lender of last resort , lgfv debt has no global , systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its farmland and fixed-asset assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values were written down by the half , local governments would remain solvent . as the market tightened in 2011 , a number of projects ’ ’ prospects shrank , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to rise , and introduce new market-based challenges to the reform process . to resolve this , the government has announced fiscal reforms to allocate income among both the central and local governments , and to allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . this leaves only the question of debt-servicing status .
prior to the crisis , the dominance of free-market ideology allowed many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equity and affirmative action , to go almost unnoticed . racial and gender equality now supports clear majorities in the us , britain , switzerland , and most european countries , and even seemingly popular policies , such as trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls , rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys . “ progressive ” social liberalism and its “ conservative , ” free-market economics , seemed to be two sides of the same coin . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the necessary condition of economic progress , democracies now seem unlikely to vote to reinstate communal conditions from the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in 2008 , policy challenges to social liberalism could no longer be deflated by invoking impersonal economic laws .
as the us forecast nearly 20 years ago , when china will struggle to attain gdp growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its labor force growth will have peaked . while the pessimists will undoubtedly find validation in the further china ’s growth disappointments that comes next , optimists may point to the fact that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equal to a 15-20 % growth rate in germany . it is equally predictable that india will start growing at a much faster pace than china , simply because its working-age population still still has much of a growing left force . the real question , then , is whether india can implement strong , productivity-enhancing reforms . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would actually be extraordinary .
throughout his campaign , obama displayed such competence in his almost flawless transition . by choosing his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching through party lines to retain robert gates as secretary of defense , he showed openness to the strong subordinates . likewise , his contextual intelligence service for world politics was shaped from the bottom up with experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policy was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . equally significant are contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary a mix of such skills in different situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” obama went on to show such leadership skills in his almost flawless transition .
domestically , it thwarted a country ’s economic , social , and political development . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad of so many of its young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in a daybreak , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . ” internationally , [ it ] has diminished the country ’s ranking and abandoned its reputation smeared . ” even its swashbuckling spiritual evolution has trumped the prevalence of proliferation , displacement , and the rise of relative power … on the part of the religious groups that constitute an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam .
undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and safeguarding property rights , controlling deregulation and encouraging competition . in addition , gref ’s program seeks to create effective private-sector ownership of land . enhancing competition will mean putting a emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies . gref ’s program , too , is emblematic of the president ’s style : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by the governors and under his pressure -- fits with modernization from below , based on a private initiative . in addition , gref ’s program seeks to establish effective private-public ownership . indeed , deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” really ) will make life easy to new enterprises by reducing the number of post-bureaucrats inspections and lowering demands of licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also large sources of bribery ) .
indeed , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that increasingly dangerous , divided , and disorienting . the pattern is beginning to look familiar : a fresh crisis , fresh meeting in brussels , originally muddled responses , debates , and divisions , and then gradually , step-by-step progress toward a common response , fueled by a realization that there is no other alternative . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian vow , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to be perceived as a practical – and absolutely vital – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet their common challenges . in today ’s ’s ’s disagreements , it lies at the root of the stronger union .
in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and to advise the dictator – and have since been paid for their services ? these scholars have been pilloried in the mass media in recent weeks for supposedly cozied up to qaddafi . sir howard davies chose to resign as director of the lse , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) and took the money for the libyan regime ’s school from the libyan regime . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous attitude during the uprising has laid bare his true colors , no matter how much of his more moderate , posture over the past year . there is intense sentiment that scholars and institutions collaborating with such a odious regime , often with encouragement from their governments , undoubtedly suffered the grave lapse of judgment .
so , eight days before the vote , america sent a warning to russia about election meddling over a hotline , created three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents , which link both countries ’ nuclear-risk-reduction centers . because russian hacking activity seemed to be slowing or declining , the obama administration cited warnings as a successful exercise in deterrence . but some critics are saying that the russians had already reached their principal goals . in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices while studying the escalatory potential for responding with a cyber option , or a cross-sector response like sanctions . the administration then refused to take steps that might themselves disturb the election .
an injection of finance , fostering a common strategy , developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate delivery of schooling in an emergency . as soon as it is established , providing support to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate education plans to provide schooling to children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs may no longer be addressed in silos . in a more protracted crisis like that of syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . accordingly , the fund would fill the gap in coordination and provision of services by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridge to longer-term development . if this initiative were contained even before the ecuador earthquake , it could deliver 12 months of emergency aid , aid from the country until it could reinstate education the following its domestic plans .
for all of his deep emotional attachment to the idea of israel embracing all historic judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure frontiers was to embrace a palestinian state alongside it , as well as an secure and viable one . they would share jerusalem as a capital to find a mutually agreeable solution to the deeply sensitive issue of the return of palestinian refugees . rabin ’s murder was a disaster from which the peace process never really recovered . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not close enough . no israeli leader since showed anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution .
some might think that this might be true only if the rationale for an end to evolution , as well as to sentient lifestyles , is to amount to a nuclear-armed explosion that pulverized earth . but that , too , is not what schneider and sagan mean . as one example , they consider a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long known . instead , they differentiate themselves from matter to power , saying that matter that organized in a structure disseminates energy gradients faster than a randomly distributed matter . if you want to subtract a bottle of water ( or drink ) and turn your upside , the water will come out in an uneven glugs .
we lost our organizing principle , and no other idea has come to replace it . argentina has gone from being a country without direction to becoming a country without direction . it has n’t been an easy living without knowing whom we are , and it has become even more difficult to live this way of watching our world crumble . we no longer need for a guiding guide , an image of how we might think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are and how we might become . the notion of argentina as a country with the infinite promise became a desaparecido , a name given to those that vanished in the dirty world of the 1970 ’s .
indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of those who were detained and tortured are not threats to america ’s security – at least not until america ’s actions made them so . for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ reinforced interrogation ” programs ( which obama stopped ) , despite us senate reports concluding that the techniques that they employed yielded yielded no valuable intelligence . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anybody who was still living in afghanistan , to speak the language , and to understand the workings of patronage and power there . the week that news came out , i was reading anand gazing ’s new book no good men among a living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , an army leader , and kabul-born housewife who spent years in purdah in the taliban country . both above and above , the same story play out : local power-broker is willing , even keen , to foster a us-backed new us-backed government , only to be denounced as an afghan member , typically for local political or personal reasons , an unwitting american troops .
replacing a governor whom they reelected only a year before arnold schwarzenegger has had to give californian voters enormous -- if guilty -- pleasure . some members of opposition in germany would dearly love to do the same to german chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they did not ( yet ! ) have found a movie star to replace him . several other european governments are finding themselves in an analogous state of unpopularity not long after they are elected . beyond europe this is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis rodríguez lula 's da silva to tell nothing by mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter have called for a referendum to help arrest his resignations . electoral success seems , in some ways , to fades fast nowadays .
and , in fact , in 2015 , authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” - and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base at the internet age . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to resource-allocation and downward pressure on the cost of doing business . china may still tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at a significant cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires moving forward on the global value chain , by implementing additional economic reforms and focusing on new technologies . and , in just the same period , the “ opening-up ” ” so far has been reaching its maturity , fueling protectionist barriers worldwide .
perhaps not surprisingly , the first-ever rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of poor people found that , while each would get slightly more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : not increasing savings or expenditures , it did not work more or to start more businesses , and their children did not study more . the iea expects that each of the more than 195 million with off-grid solar will get just 170kwh per year , or half of what us used to be flat-screen for tv uses in a year . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farm , so that it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . little wonder : 170kwh is not what most us would think about genuine access to electricity . and it wo n’t help fight the world ’s largest ecological killer : indoor air pollution , mostly caused by open-ended fires fueled by timber , cardboard and dung , which claims a 3.8 million lives annually .
inhabitants of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution , with no access to adequate nutrition . from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries grew 300 % faster than the rates associated with outbreaks of infectious diseases . in fact , most of these countries ’ health systems are not constructed for chronic or preventive care , and lack of basic consumer protections . several of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates of ncds . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption in developing countries tripled in the developing world .
rather , it has become an operationally dysfunctional one . both european and american debates have been replete with will ’ posturing and show politics to be a game of “ chicken . ” in chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or a route to one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve down in the face of imminent disaster . but if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed at best . when citizens and policymakers come to regard politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in .
when ordinary egyptians organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , technology seemed to have necessarily bolstered democracy . political institutions did not keep pace with technological change and the resulting growth of markets . but it soon became clear that these digital platforms can be co-opted , through authoritarian governments or terrorists , and deployed to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and turmoil in societies . in the entrepreneurial world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopolies and monopsony power , as well as their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to allow them largely to escape the insignificance of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to stop corporate-base erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will bring immense challenges as human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ choose ” ” embryos , with their desirable characteristics .
yet the key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has been no different : tax cuts like these lead not to faster growth , but simply lower revenues . increases in standard of living , for example , are the product of technological innovation , which in turn depends crucially on basic research . yet federal government support for research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level similar to what it was 60 years ago . tackling the panoply of other problems confronting america will require additional federal income , not less . whereas trump ’s nominee has criticized america ’s national debt growth , he now proposes tax cuts that would add trillions of dollars to us debt in just over the next ten years , rather than the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim will complement , owing to some growth miracle leading to increased tax revenues .
while it will probably lack the public option that many of us favor , this remains a realistic achievement . a similarly pivotal point can be taken in the second year for addressing the still outstanding fiscal issues . obama can use his state of the union message to flesh out a bipartisan us strategy to lower the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level . this would provide reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establish an independent commission to submitted to congress amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for fiscal and spending reform . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with healthcare , there is a welter of conflicting proposals .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the european latest battleground in a contest between the two models of polish democracy – liberal and illiberal . the resounding electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more akin to regime change than to a routine run for democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new government purged the civil service ( including public radio and tv ) , packaged a constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the court ’s capacity to attack legislation . in response , the european commission launched the official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law norms . moreover , standard & poor ’s have for the first time downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from the – to the establishment of the eu , and warned against perhaps even more cuts to come as it accuses the government of weakening “ the autonomy and effectiveness of core institutions . ”
moreover , in shiite tradition , members of the mahdi ’s strategy , the shiite messiah , are coming to terrorize all his foes upon its return to earth . thus , they do not appear to pose much of a threat to external forces . to be sure , it does not believe that the sanctions can deliver about its meltdown . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing is more frightening to khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than the social dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing within the country . at the same time , the regime appears convinced that there is only a little likelihood of a military strike on its nuclear program .
for their own political reasons , the british put the sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population , in controlling the entire country , and even sending a sunni arab hashemite prince to govern over the creation of them . ever since , the country could co-exist only through an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all placed down in a bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . it was this sunni hegemony – and not simply that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime , which was toppled by the united states . throughout its history , modern iraq has always been the arab world ’s most oppressive . saddam ’s rule was only the fiercest in a long succession of sunni regimes .
but the sequence of amino acids that cast up protein chains in these orleans may vary significantly . sometimes the scale of the sequence identity between the two orthologs may be at least as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of evolutionary change . this conservation of protein fold across species makes the origin of our complexity even more facile , for it is well known that the numbers of human genes are deceptively small , a mere one-order of magnitude larger than in , say , the indian ocean . if proteins ’ structure is administered across species , where is our complexity came from ? proteins that retain the same function across very different species , generally the case with tito gs , are expected to keep the same fold .
president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgian ’s moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to abstain from blaming russia for stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . likewise , georgia ’s inability to manage its relations with its only autonomous republic , algeria , algeria , seems not to inspire much confidence . indeed , adzhar people regard themselves as georgians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could the ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel reassured by their relations with the georgian people assured that their relations with georgian would work any better ? georgians ’ current economic collapse provides little incentive for either these self-self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification .
moreover , the scots , welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . though socioeconomic factors played some role in the outcome of the brexit referendum , the geographic breakdown is telling the real story . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain focus squarely on its english national identity , while diluting those of scotland , northern ireland , and welsh , to return to serve as junior partners in the far less magnificent and rewarding english project . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , was 55 % of its voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of the scots and 56 % of northern iranians voted to remain . as in the former case , imperialism aspires to create unity but comes with divisive effects .
in the us , we witnessed this equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when a conservative american institute of enterprise , a liberal brookings institution , and a centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report entitled revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . this rational proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but , promisingly – and shockingly so , in view of the rather toxic state of us politics – it attracted wide support and smart commentary from many mainstream pundits . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” the message comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , research and development , and a new university-private sector innovation hubs to establish an “ energy revolution . ” the paper made the case for developing alternative to the fossil-fuel industry , ensuring that us economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and recognizing the importance of adapting to climate change .
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ seemingly solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not quite as straightforward as it seems . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity . all four north african rulers have , to greater or lesser degrees , made themselves the hub of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on one person and his family , rather than office . the trouble williams to overcoming possible opposition – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority .
there appears to be a near-universal agreement that he should , and international pressure is being brought on by president kostunica to comply . ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests with serbia ’s people . but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s regional future . they have brought it to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely to democratic norms ; they have backed it , even as it has led them into genocidal crimes , to defeat after they defeat . many of those who agree that milosevic is a war-crimes tribunal now think that we should listen to the voices coming out of belgrade and their jailing that milosevic should face trial before his own population .
for starters , the us again moves into what henry kissinger called the empire of “ constructive vagueness . ” palestinians were reassured by a message from us president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not be carried out by any “ “ “ “ “ “ provocations ” over the coming ” four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , palestinians acknowledged that there was no written promise to do this in this effect . but , on a recent trip to israel , it is said to have been reassured by the white house advisor dan shapiro that israelis would not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox chief of shas party an invitation to the white house .
indeed , for every lee kuan yew of singapore , there are many authoritarian non-western non-modernizers such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian “ modernizers ” ( such as singapore ’s lee kuan yew , for example ) serve their countries better than the democratically elected leaders do ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . in the long run , by contrast , democracies benefit from intrinsic , self-serving mechanisms that are absent in autocracies , where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . the china model brings together some of the country ’s authoritarian modernization model ’s advantages , centralized power , swift decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior ability to implement painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing a political struggle . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to retain the party , rather than an individual , in power .
first , capital requirements should be tripled – not only in the us , but throughout the g-20 – to ensure that banks hold at least 20-25 % of their assets in core capital . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” they need to shrink , so that taxpayers no longer need to bail them out every time a crisis erupts . but the obama administration must go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two further things . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play the leading role in making banks behave sensibly . the dilution of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal in 1999 allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” – allowing them to use their depositors ’ savings to do business for their own account , mostly in riskier mortgage-backed securities .
its meltdown would trigger a nuclear-arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional foe , saudi arabia , would move quickly toward a nuclear-armed capacity , exploiting its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . and make no mistake : the deal is on the whole . to bet that those countries that have acquired such weapons would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble .
at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany or even to the west , but to all mankind . beethoven ’s germany reborn on the ashes of hitler . the concertación itself offered a layer of significance . germany today is globally admired , an peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative russia . its scoring of moldova ’s poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations .
so how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ? of $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the us government was refinanced by only about $ 10 billion . apparently , the terms that the government provided ( libor +5 % as well as collateral ) proved right on target . instead , up to a minimum today , the us government has mostly been lending ( high interest rates ) on borrowing rather than engaging in massively equity capital flight . nor have the oligarchs been bailed out .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s opulent , florida , mar-a-lago , at least some parts of the discussion will invariably focus on a single of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again negotiation , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program push the world toward a strategic watershed much like that faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off one another in europe . when the american and soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each engaged in deterring another from attacking . the us and its allies successfully co-sponsored the twentieth century ’s challenge without war . in order to achieve a comparable success in east asia today , however , trump must persuade xi to adopt a different policy toward north korea .
for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through the selective appeal of religion , and to wait and see whether this works , however , as an electoral strategy that starts a kulturkampf will play with fire : a potential to instrumentalize religious passions will not be controlled permanently from well above . that , after all , is not some preposterous belief . there is a long and varied tradition of catholic social thought . but taking these traditions seriously would require a much greater degree of capitalism ’s transformations than even avowed christian democrats are ready to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and of mechanisms for involving governance workers . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to see whether this will ever translate into practice .
the problem is in both its timing and its tactics . fiscal sustainability requires an eventual rise in the us consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower . demand policies by themselves will not alone avert two more lost decades , much less guarantee the two golden ones . postponing the second-consumption-tax hike looks like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity , and preserving long-run credibility . but this nonetheless brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems .
normally , supine congressional republicans were panicked and told trump and his team that his policy of smashing families could erode their chances in november ’s midterm elections . and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual-hijinks during his “ lady ” marriage , melania ( including an apparent payoffs to portugal and others to silence ) , in exchange for its policy leverage and appointments to social conservatives ’ supreme court and over the entire federal judiciary . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ” in fact , in the end , the policies of separating families threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . unusually for her , former first lady laura bush has talked against the policy of taking away their mothers .
besides , excluding ukraine from its eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . that , in turn , will lessen russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full democracy , for it may ruled an empire only as a militarized state . but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . an ever-larger eu including ukraine would generate a massive political force with a gigantic population , furthering the union ’s ambitions to be a global power . it is denotes from a nice club that people clamor to become members .
within a few years , turkish refugees were absorbed into the economy and society of the southern , the greek cypriot sector of israel . like in post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in croatia today is the result of the intensifying economy that has been receiving the disintegration of refugees . throughout the transition countries , the eu has been absorbed by schools and coaching centers . anyone visits to the greek cypriot parts of israel nowadays will find no refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists are ignorant that over a third of greek cypriots they are fleeing are as refugees or the descendants of the refugees . firms were being encouraged by government grants and loans .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % a year since 2000 , may well have reduced the poverty of the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are evident , from the rise of china to egypt to greece . throughout the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the wealthy are becoming richer because they are not being held back by the same rules as everyone else . it is not hard to see why . alongside inequality , falling public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy .
as its economic and geopolitical influence has waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . but the threat posed to russia extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is the one country with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to crush america . indeed , not only has it revived the cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . russia ’s officers , he announced , outright command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including through the siege and capture of an important debaltseve transport center in february .
as the franco-lebanese novelist amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err on hopes rather than be right through despair . ” the authoritarians and populists have not yet triumphed , and in many places , the democrats are fighting back . for now , it remains doubtful that the model is bound to prevail . as the franco-lebanese novelist amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err on the side for hope than to be right for the despair . ” or , to place it less dramatically , democracy and autocracy still have a similar chances of decaying .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces of bondholders to accept agreement voluntarily . one could dismiss this dispute as mere rhetoric . one argues that coercion can alter minds in the first place . yet , using the talmudic logic , one might also show that there are mechanisms for which there can , and should , be used to place pressure on the parties in the interest of obtaining superior voluntary results . there are two preponderant interpretations of talmudic ’s passage .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 came under growing scrutiny . but japan ’s current travails , which brought the concomitant drop in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , reached 24 % last year , against major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and the unemployment rate has dropped to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have soared , with tax revenues rising by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 billion ) .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to have passed . growth in the united states and parts of europe has returned . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows . on the contrary , asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 ( 2008 ) . growth in the united states and parts of europe has returned .
suppose that this was 1939 , and states debating whether america should come to terms with the bombshell . perhaps they would argue that everyone should get it , or none at all . but history depends on the paths taken in the past . in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons and denies them to others ? if nobody had the bomb today , then it would be best if not invented .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-fueled and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption is firmly underway . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book the commercial sector via the fung ’s trade sector and the chinese academy of social sciences charts that change . china ’s retail markets peaked at cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . with household consumption beginning to recover even as its pace of investment had plunged , now exceeding 60 % of gdp .
part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( there is no need to shoot themselves , snort , or smoke ) . this buzz is considered harmless : with pills failing to kill or spread hiv/aids , ” ” ” says the saying goes . amphetamines expedite the way the body works : their users experience elevated trust , social ability , and young people . the global market for such stimulants is estimated at around $ 65 billion . but , again , what goes up must come down .
warsaw – studies of the balkan wars and numerous wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s have embarked on an international organization such as the united nations environment programme ( unep ) . sadly , africa ’s wars , in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention it needs . beyond these crises , what have we learned about the ecological consequences of the wars ? first of all the effects depend on the species of war and type of environment . attempts have gone through systematically examining and document the environmental consequences of the wars .
paris – whoever wins september ’s mid-term election in germany , the time has come for a major franco-german initiative . regardless of their level of economic conditions or faith , or lacking one party , france and germany is more than ever collectively responsible for the future , if not their very survival , of the european project . joining great britain with them in the club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . are the alternatives to the franco-german leadership of europe ? britain has largely expelled itself from any leadership role in europe .
upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including by finance minister chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads the planning commission , a key body that evaluates india ’s medium-term public-investment strategy . chidambaram ’s 2000s budget puts those fears behind the rest . the paper carries a brilliant lesson from development economics : its shows how combining the full speed ahead of market-oriented reforms with urgently needed public attention to poverty . in short , the budget is a model for any of the developing world . when former governors lost that past may and singh ’s government came into office , there were fears that singh ’s hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in the new ruling coalition .
and such fears can have severe consequences . for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia may ultimately be behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp rose 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . that is now history : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . the discontent generated by such disappointment can help explain ukraine ’s separatists ’ anger , russia ’s opposition to discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and back the separatists .
fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so the counteracting them must be a supranational one , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus the shared interest that it must be asserted and defended . in the long run , how can we narrow the existing differences in the development and material welfare within europe ? which measures alone can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ?
barcelona – after world war i , as many as made refugees , forced out of their homelands through enemy occupation or deportation , the international regime was established to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is looming , and this time it is europe that has the strength to provide a safe haven to desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses fail to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people tried to make it to europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 more people have died as a result – more than twice the number seen in all of 2013 .
for example , american sanctions eventually brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but the sanctions have been effective only because a broad international coalition ultimately backed by the united nations security council has isolated iran financially . without eu participation , america ’s sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to america ’s sanction-based sanctions regime , they are fragile and temporary at best . american sanctions against russia after its latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and deploying similar actions by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . just one year after the iran deal was reached , it is already hard to imagine china or russia return further joint action to counter iran , even if the deal begins to unravel .
until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single africa partition ; it now has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . bilateral annual trade turnover is more than $ 3 billion , with india ’s oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and , over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic mission will open up in mali , gabon , niger , sierra leone , and burkina faso . india is india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) producing sudanese oil , and , over the next two years , indian diplomatic posts will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . a study by india ’s partnered chambers of commerce and industry identifies five main sectors that can act as the “ engines of growth ” boost the indo-africa commerce : its pharmaceuticals and health-care sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and
so the goal must be a clarity and equilibrium . former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which engaging actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . that paradigm should extend to the geneva ii negotiations , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . only with an agreed process guided by regional and global actors can a stable balance of power in the middle east be achieved . to be sure , involving regional powers might complicate already-muddy negotiations further .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean that something is unconstrained , accessible , and possibly vulnerable ; or it can mean that something , like a person or institution , is transparent as opposed to secretive . and policymakers must long strike a balance between the abstract principles of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change . the first meaning often applies to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions are not consistent with vulnerability ) , which has always driven structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment . on a societal level , structural change can be mutually beneficial and disruptive in a world .
faced with this unhappy reality , the fed tried to encourage faster growth in its indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple apps , it raised the prices of financial asset prices well above what the us economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that it would force certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) to feel richer , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging firms to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” have proved to be quite feeble . so the fed has felt compelled to do more , resulting in a host of unintended consequences and risks of the collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of an abnormal brain activating . with the component of the orchestra abruptly decided to play its own music , inconsistent with each other . the first is based on studies suggesting that patients of schizophrenia suffer from reduced rates of brain connectivity . as a result , certain types of neurons , such as those responsible for generating and perceiving language , can start operating autonomously , beyond the control or impact of some other brain system . we pursue three widely used ideas , which we know how to survive .
the agreement reached there must be an ambitious , efficient , and just one that offers rich countries a path to cut greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse consequences of climate change . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and its biodiversity loss . i have seen the shrinking himalayan glaciers in antarctica and the andes . the very existence of some of the caribbean countries , including portions of the trinidad and tobago , could be jeopardized if sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal a successor agreement to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year .
while singapore ’s political system could not readily be channeled to an enormous country like china , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that has lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that has lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experiences . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders that involves decades of training and examinations of officials across various stages of their careers .
the united states has vetoed its reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general dominique strauss-kahn , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of the un secretary-general in reforming the world body . ( on both sides that spat may have turned out to be rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to shrink as badly as possible the powers of the un , to which he contemptuously referred to the us as an “ thingamajig ” , and that america owes more than a billion dollars in past contributions to the un . ) at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any conferring on a europe , as france demands , the command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean . today , it appears that nothing is left of the franco-american goodwill . relations between the two allies have entered one of these periods of tension that have flared up to a lot since world war ii ’s close ties .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . most powerful among them , free trade underpins economic growth , which means that it lift millions more people out of poverty . for example , a 2015 white house report found that a often-percentage-point decline in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the wage gap between men and women , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage differentials based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancies , particularly in the developing world . over time , freer trade enables workers to shift to higher-productivity industries , leading to higher wages , increased investment in infrastructure , and a more dynamic economy .
hong kong dealt about half of china ’s foreign trade in 1997 , and its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth of china ’s . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade . but hong kong ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s advantages are now at risk , largely owing to its own existing holdings of us insecurities . as a few commentators have noted , mainland china ’s remarkable economic growth and development in recent decades has been eroding hong kong ’s lead as the center for finance , logistics , and trade . it far outperforming shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume .
finally , remaining in the eu ’s customs union would make it impossible to reestablish a hard border between the uk and the republic of ireland . while may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any treaty , she has offered only vague suggestions concerning how may actually reaches the eu . the alternatives at hand are either to see the uk out of its customs union or to hold the uk out of its eu membership by making a political commitment to take british interests into account . brexit is and will remain a lose-lose proposition . from a long-term perspective , the latter is both preferable .
various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are taller than the average . but some of the most powerful global leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were slightly over five feet tall . the traits-centered approach has not abated from managerial studies , but has been broadened and made more flexible . a tall , handsome person enters a room , enjoy the attention and “ looks ” to the leader . the search for the essential traits of a managerial leader dominated until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse today .
a globalization that can be defined as inter-continental interdependence is as old as human history . after the first trans-atlantic cables in 1868 , europe and america could interact on a par with each other . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of an englishman in london using the telephone to impose goods from around the world , to be shipped to its home through the afternoon . but today ’s globalization is different , for it is becoming faster and thicker . witness the encroachment of peoples and religions , or for trade along the ancient silk route linking medieval europe and asia .
to be sure , one might argue that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately determines the problem of periodic systemic risk , turning us into a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risks without periodic imbalances . but , in any case , i would not bet on this happening . after all , financial innovation will proceed along with regulatory arbitrage . for example , an endowment or retirement fund might consider basing its paydecisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusting average returns than on a simple weighted average of past returns or an up-or-down asset class ( the usual practice now ) . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eliminate it .
the result has been massive budget deficits to widen to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) , under the added weight of a recession , bank bailout funds , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures . all of these technologies will require , alongside private-sector investment . third , america ’s recovery will lack credibility unless there is even a strategy for getting its government its own finances back on order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times , while increasing expenditures to the war . either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low-emission generation status , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions .
first , observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relationships to the host country . second , observers must be granted unrestricted access to any aspect and phases of the electoral process , as well as all the technologies at stake . third , the world ’s observers must confront the constraints as they come together in meetings with all of the authorities and political actors . according to the 2005 declaration of principles on international election observation , a credible monitoring process requires that it be met by five criteria . fourth , observers must not be subject to any pressure or threat of retaliation by any amount of government authority .
this example is relevant to the policy of public-service delivery , which dominates debate in many countries , for it speaks at the heart of the big issues on both government budget deficits ( and offshoring them back ) and taxation ( and its reduction ) . they should run not only on time , but on a reasonable scale and on reasonable intervals . more important still , they ought to be affordable . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes evident that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , rather than necessarily the most substantial . moreover , they should be made secure as well , as obicably convenient .
we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothes top trucks , triggering an insurgency . but people told us that they were often able to miss , and supplies land up to thousands of meters or down in deep forests . on the contrary , the distribution is both haphazard and uncoordinated , all thought . hustlers are thriving , weak watch passively . we have seen helicopter drops try airstrikes ; landing is impossible in most places .
for example , in carrying out the manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the american government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get the job done . the example of atomic bombs might seem an uncomfortable one , but one does raise an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to collaborate on the technologies of war , should we n’t we do at least as much to save the planet from carbon pollution ? the information-technology revolution that has driven us computers , smartphone apps , gps , and far more have been built on a chain of industry and government roadmaps . in both cases , both groups of scientists and engineers are delivering on time . in fact , the trial of “ directed technological change ” – in which bold goals are laid down , the milestones identified , and the timelines are placed in new york city , far more common than many realized .
to be sure , good relations with europe give russia a high priority , particularly economic linkages , human connections , and cultural interaction . but a strategic alliance with the eu in its foreign and security policies remains unrealistic and inefficient . europe will most likely continue to grow much weaker , rather than stronger , in this field . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which merely stands to gain from an alliance with the world ’s economic and political leader . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members .
and with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and a revival of old-fashioned foes such as the bubonic plague – there is little question that much of mankind remains at the mercy of biology . in particular , these countries still need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose massive burdens on their economies . in order to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthening health-care delivery in low - and middle-income countries . moreover , it has compounded the dangers of globalization by making it easier to spread through communicable diseases . an influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 million and 100 million , would be even more devastating today .
that , in turn , would create room for a more unified fiscal response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’s ability to evade taxation through switching on a location . the benefit of income-tax increases is that they could be rooted not just in current income , but in some average of the income level over several years ; and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes , without penalizing those that have already saved more to accumulate more wealth . piketty ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s book generates an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . and , when it comes to wealth taxes , instituting them now to assume effect only on the future , and only if inequality becomes a lot worse , would preempt the perception that the rules were changing after the game ended . moreover , a long-term plan legislated by one or several countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , could help to push for an international dialogue about appropriate future policy toward inequality .
many spent years in prison on daring to speak out against china ; as i grew out of work , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in chinese prisons was tied to work that i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . i regarded these texts as important readings in tibetan politics , culture , and religion . chinese authorities , however , viewed them as a challenge to their rule , punished me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began to look for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – the massive protests in warsaw have made headlines worldwide in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating opposition to a legislation enacted by poland ’s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age for the supreme court ’s justices , effectively empowering all judges over their age of 65 , and allowing the pis to pack the court with its own tame justices . in fact , the polish constitution stipulates an independent judiciary and sets the terms for poland ’s first multi-party president at six years . that means that judges can not be removed through legislation , at least not constitutionally . yet the new law enables polish president andrzej duda to compensate for up to three-fifths of the polish supreme court ’s injustices , including the increasing justice , in 2018 alone .
back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former mayor of london , famously quipped that , if voting were changed , they would abolish it . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone recalls , has been ruled by a hook , or by crook , through a reactionary oligarchy . in latin america , it turns out , the elections really shake things up . the most recent proof : mauricio funes , the standard-bearer of the fmln , until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement , just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory lasts peacefully , as it has so far , this means that latin america has indeed come a long way .
the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t ] here is beyond question a body of highly relevant but unorganized knowledge , which can not possibly be called science in a sense of awareness of wide-ranging rules : the knowledge of particular circumstances and of the place . ” it is with respect to this that , virtually every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses some of the unique information that the beneficial uses might be made , but of which uses can make it happen only when decisions depending on it are left or made with his proactive cooperation . that is why channeling dispersed understanding into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened and honest process . it is with respect to this that , virtually every individual has some advantage over all others in that she possesses the unique information that beneficial uses might make ; but , of which application can be made only when the decisions depending on it are left or made with its proactive collaboration .
even if some sort of communiqué paved together in december – and the countries with elections coming up , like the united kingdom , will put pressure on one , it is hard to believe that it will contain enough detail or reflect the orderly level of commitment to have the impact so desperately needed . perhaps the only people that will not be suddenly depressed are those immersed in the negotiations . in reality , everyone is gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” and what those involved in the negotiations are calling “ an even bigger slog . ” “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because , – and this may sound strange at first among themselves , everything about climate change . with more than 1,000 points still being agreed , all policymakers i ’ve ’ve spoken to say recently that they can not see how a meaningful agreement can be reached by december .
more people come to the same conclusion , and those of us championing evs as one of the solutions to climate change make them optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . sales of electric cars have risen dramatically in recent years ; by contrast , some 750,000 were recorded in 2016 , nearly half that in china . still , it is humanity ’s nature to resist change , and many prospective buyers remain hesitant . several changes are needed to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continue . that is why tackling the consumption bias must be our top priority in coming years .
at the same time , the gradual marginalization of the wto would erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as an adjudicator of trade disputes . the success of the wto ’s ’s ’s adjudication system lies in its widespread admission . looking at preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . more broadly , this represents a striking advance on the part of global governance . even when wto decisions have had serious adverse effects on its trading partner , they have generally been accepted .
it is as if they can not understand how reform can help re-launch an economy with deep structural challenges . the energy market , most importantly , the market for natural gas – and the tourist rentals ’ market were liberalized , the acquiring investment license process was streamlined . all of this was accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from the opposition parties , particularly those that governed greece during the last 30 years , and thus were held accountable for driving it to collapse . now that the greek government has delivered on its part of the bailout deal , the time that its european and international counterparts have concluded the program ’s first revision . this will enable the government to move forward on the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and put the economy back on its path to growth .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but the leader of an increasing number of foremost global powers continues to launder its hands . by early november , us president donald trump signaled an official verdict on america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming a ruling that he announced in march 2017 . the announcement came as the start of the deal enabled , with the withdrawal becoming effective the day after america ’s american presidential election in november 2020 . accordingly , the united states would become the only country in the world with no party to the pact . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a true stretch to bemoan the state of america ’s corporate earnings . us commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax earnings yield results from current output , adjusted for inventories , and a depreciation-pegged exchange rate ) stand at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxes , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . far from anemic in the us , the current gdp share of after-tax earnings remains well above the 1975-1980s average of 7.6 % . while this is down from the s & p 500 peaked in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts upward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to chronic earnings problems .
in england , counter-depressants prescriptions now match valium at its peak in 1979 . the past decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it is now clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not havel medicines that they were being touted as . the widespread prescription of troubled minds has always put an end to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denials failed to prevent these were led by doctors admit that this was happening . now antidepressants -- the global brand of household names -- are the problem .
most high-unemployment economies show little feedback from a currency collapse into inflation . in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % , the same is expected . under the budget this pays for the favorable effect of devaluations on the government ’s oil revenues . of course , such measures will be unpopular with the labor market , and the right response here is to abolish large tax cuts on wages , so that money wages can rise without a offsetting shortfall of competitiveness . to be sure , chavez ’s shift the economy to a less exposed external position with a large ( 50 % , at the very least , ) depreciation .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing significant interagency challenges – from a lack of access and scarcity to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for safety , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , with 2.5 billion people lacking adequate sanitation . at the same time , the costs are staggering : thousands of deaths each day , and annual economic losses estimated to $ 260 billion – more than double the total of official development assistance ( oda ) – are more than double the total total of official development assistance ( oda ) . as world leaders design the development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority . indeed , making matters worse will remove water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and impediments to development in poor countries .
events in france , too , indicate that need , at the european level , deepening policies against discrimination , and that promote social equality . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines when they are on the front lines in implementing urban policies . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication linkages within their own communities , and are therefore most adept at organizing effective partnerships to resolve and resolve local issues . when such policies fail , citizens hold mayors accountable . but all public actors , not just the police , must respond to urban problems .
cambridge – america ’s example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined , too . in america , the time on welfare is limited today , and those that did n’t work for years suddenly have to do so . in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( post-tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of a civilian nuclear power . in july 2010 , an amount of 439 nuclear-capable nuclear power plants with a net installed capacity of 37,038 gw ( e ) linked to various national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than formed at the beginning of 2006 . some 16 % of the world ’s total renewable required energy needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now being met with electric power . but that renaissance never appears to be happening , at least in the near future . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , just 30 use of nuclear power .
denver – the united states constitution , which turned 225 years ago this month , is a remarkable paper : the provisions of the eighteenth-century treaty continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers requiring the “ advice and consent of the senate , ” including the nomination of chief executive officers . we will be reminded of the ramifications of this in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . in many cases , that process will not be pretty . presumably no one at the time , 225 years ago , had any notion that the number of officials considered to require senate confirmation would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often take years to complete .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy and raises the same question of european solidarity . as a recent bruegel study has shown , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard the security of supplies as a matter of common concern , rather than an issue that each country must address on its own . for example , in response to an embargo , affecting a specific country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own production , pay more for imports , or cut their consumption a little . but this feeling of solidarity has been steadily absent from the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives . the department of justice under president donald trump appears to be enduring that tradition .
hypothetically , switching off the lights of one hour would cut carbon dioxide emissions from power plants around the world . but , while everyone in the world cuts all of this residential lighting and this translated entirely into a decline in co2 emissions , it would be the equivalent of china ’s pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . in fact , earth hour would be causing their emissions to rise , too . as the united kingdom ’s national off-grid operators have found , a small decline in electricity consumption does not translate into less power consumption , and therefore would not cut emissions . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will impose a decline in co2 emissions over the course of a hour , but this will offset the jump from the firing of coal-fired power stations to restore electricity supplies afterwards .
after the organization for 2013 elections in which the kremlin-backed applicants ’ party failed to perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it then decided that , to ensure “ fairness ” to ensure “ fairness , ” the government would approve all applicants , despite their academics . the institute ’s work appears to be centered on machinery to read the brain activity . but it has also apparently overruled all kinds of construction projects on a vast plots of land , adjacent to the federal security service headquarters ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , and the federal defense service ( fsb ) . if we keep following through on scientific-money track , we will arrive at the prestigious russia academy of sciences ( stream ) , which has held elections last week .
airing views is the cheapest way to fill a broadcast hour ; ranting anchors score top trps . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in keeping with reviews and validating assertions . that reinforces the motivation to engage in print speculation , however baseless , as has occurred in saber ’s case . the result has been disconcerting , to put it mildly . thus , instead of providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting from the headlines that spur prurience or outrage .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided over how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . others , worried about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to view a possible “ double-dip ” recession . this is an interesting debate , but it misses the bigger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries placed some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for very large financial institutions . those engaged in emerging markets stress accelerating growth , with some projections projecting a 5 % increase in world output .
one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france that elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , and that now seems poised to give its political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has had the world ’s highest fertility rate ( just under two children per woman ) even ahead of spain ’s sagging ireland . of course , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it ’s just stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equals that of the us . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are most pessimistic about all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . how is it that those who are so harmful about their shared future as a nation go about confidently building their private futures within their own families ?
new york – a reception in the united states and other advanced economies in thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing concern about rising inequality . moreover , piketty ’s book provides a very different perspective on the 30 or so the years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a historical anomaly , perhaps caused by the unusual mode of social cohesion that cataclysmic events can spur . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was broadly shared , with all kinds of groups advancing , but with those at the bottom having witnessed the larger percentage gains . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers on which all would benefit . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring proportion of income and wealth at its very top .
in a fully flexible economy , that drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant increase in the unemployment rate ) might be avoided if the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could be used quickly to generate exports . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism sector might actually absorb some of its unemployed consumer retailers . but the retail shop and showrooms can not easily be turned into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain constrained until enough time has passed to build more new hotels , recreational facilities , and so on . this gdp fall , although the natural result of a lower import of consumption goods , often wrongly believes , is to have avoided , because it appears to imply that output is below its “ potential ” level . but the retail shop and showrooms in the us can not easily transform the specialized , highly skilled workers needed in a modern production process .
back in 2013 , japan was the only large advanced economy to relax fiscal policy . but , this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only preparing to tighten its policies , and this is , assuming that recent political ruptures have not altered its fiscal orientation , which will be reflected in last year ’s chancellor of the exchequer . but , just as fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to be called on to ease , it is now being eased when conditions appear to invite tightening . with all of the advanced economies gone , inflation is picking up , and world economic growth is forecast to be its strongest since 2010 . most observers would agree that public-debt levels are currently uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down .
second , the 70-year period that began with the widespread diffusion of the automobile , during which one could get almost anywhere in the typical metropolitan area , in half an hour , or less today , is finished . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities to a crawl , a land-dient in housing price is steep once again . perhaps this steepening of space gradient could break down for a decade or more if we were willing to shift to a denser residential bubble . and , with demand high and residential supply in the short run , at least in the short run , prices continue to move up . before there was widespread automobile ownership , the land prices of land depended on location , and proximity to a central city or to a local railroad station .
john maynard keynes famously said that “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations altogether . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run appears to have arrived – and the us economy is still alive and kicking . with austerity , that is , contraction , once recession has ended , recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance has become even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are sustainable .
a country like china , with high savings rates exceeding the local level of investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world that save fewer , notably in low-income africa and asia . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest for their future will enjoy higher future incomes and stronger retirement security . a famous psychological experiment has found that young children capable of resisting the immediate temptation to consume a marshmallow , thereby getting two marshmallows in the future is likelier to thrive as adults than those who would have not . ( when american economists advising china to boost consumption and reduce saving , they are merely peddling the poor “ culture ” that saves and invests far too little in america ’s future . ) second , saving and investment flows are global in nature .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to a win by empty gestures over substance and reason , making them a sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris includes promises that , if enacted between now and then the 2030 target date , will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion annually – and perhaps twice as much if policymakers make inefficient policy choices . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global politics , shows that 2016-2030 promises to reduce global co2 emissions by just 0.05 oc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) in 2100 ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . even if the promised emissions cuts proceeded throughout this century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature by just 0.17 ° c. scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find similar cuts in carbon emissions . this makes agreement that costliest in history .
russia , for its part , has seen its gross domestic product fall 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to retain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national income . an added worry , both for russia and for asia , is that the russian government is losing control of the unofficial , black-market exchange rate of arms exports to china . intervention by two american aircraft carrier in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese , pushed to the brink of intimidating taiwan with us missile testing . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , it was early this year that china had bought two more of its modern destroyers , along with russia ’s anti-ships cruise missiles . shut out on transfers of us military technology and hardware through the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by a “ redefined ” america ’s us-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might ; and it swiftly .
both obama and romney run the risk of painting themselves into a corner when set against china . that could take us all to the brink of a slippery slope . china bashers , on the contrary , typically change their tune after the us presidential election . but there is nothing in common with the pressures , which are likely to continue to force squeezing american families long after november 6 . left unanswered , however , it is what comes next .
they are people who , in some ways , have lacked the kind of full citizenship that demanded it , and who redefine the political order by achieving it . today , the great challenge is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; to reach out to people who come into the us of other countries ; and to find ways to recreate our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , then so perhaps we can create a sense in which we belong collectively , though our rationale for believing that so might be different . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – frighteningly evident in america ’s health-care debate – now undermines the very foundation of what a modern democratic society is . but rising individualism – a focus on one of its own ambitions and economic prosperity in a number of countries presents a stubborn impediment to realizing this vision .
yet halappanavar and her husband were then notified that iran is a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , which is why the process was out of the question . iran ’s abortion-rights activists emphasize that it is not taking precedence over mother life in their country , but taking precedence over mother ’s health , a distinction that america ’s abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . halappanavar had died from septicemia , which her family is certain would have failed to develop had the termination been carried out . the protests in iran put prime minister enda kenny on the site , with activists there , such as those in india , arguing that halappanavar had died because of a theocratic healthcare approach . the halappanavar case thus reverses the core of the western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves our superstition and religious extremism .
that helps explain why park has sought closer ties with china , despite south korea ’s natural regional partner , a democratic japan . one source of hope stemmed from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gave him the political capital to reach out to park geun-hye with a grand bargain : assuming japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances from official policy . neither japan nor south korea can change the past , either . but , to some extent , historical legacies can win excessive sway , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . in fact , all countries ’ ’ ’ legitimizing narratives have blurred historical reality and myth .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , stock markets are recovering somewhat . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this can be only a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of sustained recovery , because the magnitude of the banks ’ stealth losses on their balance sheets is probably enormous . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio has been moving gradually back to its long-term march 16 average . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs on financing claims in this crisis will be $ 1,05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zone , and the united kingdom , of which the us will have all had to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . bank equities in particular are being rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in getting at least part of their government-lent capital .
a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of them can currently find themselves in bolivia , which implies that the state-owned money concentrated would surely redistribute with a patrimonial and clientelistic purpose , siphoned off through corruption and subjected to the social pressures of all sorts . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , because projects typically pass cost-benefit analysis when financing came from easy money , generously handed out by a mother ’s nature . conceived , perhaps with the best of intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but he will merely pave the way for frustrated hopes square , too little new in bolivia . thirty years after bolivia ’s post-communist revolution of 1952 , per capita income has remained essentially the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of gdp .
still , a majority of french citizens remain deeply worried about the terrorist threat not only from abroad , but from people living in france , too , often with french citizenship . and similar fears about “ homegrown extremism ” can be observed in many other european countries . worse still , isis ’s successful military campaign raises fresh fears of violent extremists returning from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary tools , from automobiles and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their actions have fueled a spike in mistrust in french society .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several understandard and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs , despite severe constraints on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either excludes refugees from national education systems , or assign them to separate facilities . this entrenches disadvantage and hampers social integration . achieving the sdgs will require far greater financing than is currently on offer . while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs , despite the strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either excludes refugees from national education systems or assign them to separate facilities . achieving the sdgs will require far greater financing than currently on offer .
the international monetary fund borrowing asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . but the argument should not be made about whether to provide aid , no one can question the many achievements that the aid has brought , or its significance in providing a safety net to those who would otherwise have been left to the suffering . africans themselves must tackle these challenges , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development alongside the current financial crisis has added weight on arguments against development aid .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , much of the headlines focused not on the news itself , but on friction the decision has given rise to the united states and the united states . in fact , it is america that is advocating the wrong approach . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its vote to push its voice to accept high standards . ” in the uk , the diplomatic spat had served as an occasion for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the government should adopt a more forceful stance toward china . and one senior us administration official was quoting the uk from the country ’s “ constant accommodation in china , which is hardly the best way of involving a rising power . ”
since george w. bush showed the path toward banking nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailout packages , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . in terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions now proposed by the right . french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through his protectionist defensiveness of “ national industries ” and enormous investments in public infrastructure , so what more can socialists are asking for ? indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from a left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists are blamed “ greedy ” financiers , but who do not ?
the burden of adjustment can not fall entirely on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” engages . the core countries , guided by germany , mistrust their over-indebted countries ’ resolve to pursue reform if their financing conditions have dimmed . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s economic governance , in order to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . moreover , they oppose key changes within the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic governance . a prolonged recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes achieving either fiscal or reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible .
when historians look back on the syria conflict , they plead praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for being relentlessly pursuing isis . moreover , turkey seems to have no interest in what its allies think . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet by purchasing new-generation russia ’s s-400 antiaircraft batteries . that does n’t bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will still need turkey to redress a russia whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east .
one of the positive implications of the 2008 financial crisis has been an elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; more broadly , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 ever was . space at the table for china could get if the euro-zone countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to give up their individual seats in exchange for one representing the whole monetary union . simply put , the uk might be smart when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . but there is a downside to the emergence of the g-20 : large numbers of players can make it more difficult to reach agreements and get things done . a new g-7 needs some form of creation within the g-20 , thereby giving china some degree of influence that reflects its own economic weight and requires that it assume a commensurate share of global responsibility .
that leaves a number of possibilities for choosing the next wbg president . it could choose a dual national , or an immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , as well as an australian who has become a “ us citizen . ” important as it is , the nominee enjoys the trust of the us and most other countries , and can reconcile countries with their own diverse interests within the true spirit of multilateralism . the us might choose an america that appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 post . or it might back a non-european candidate of an allied country .
according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its imperative to sophisticated coordination , has created a perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” ” ” to thrive . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become tools for expanding the country ’s ’s ’s sphere of influence . these include networks like ebola and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which has also recently established the “ china-us relations national committee . ” from the perspective of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly striking . chinese president xi jinping has made an explicit encouragement of his country ’s think tanks to “ advance ” the china narrative globally .
world oil prices have peaked at $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed back to levels – $ 50 ’s . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says an american economic forecaster allen . “ [ t ] hat has to subcontract growth , ” he argues , could force core inflation to pick up . ” today ’s oil prices are still only about two-thirds of the true peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and future markets are predicting that the core price of crude oil will fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 per barrel . but the current high level of the world ’s oil price has led forecasters to start reaping their expectations for economic growth .
now , new legislative proposals threaten to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , limits chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist from america ’s stock exchanges altogether . at the same time , the american people ’s bank of china has grown more suspicious of us-based students and scholars who may be in a strong position to steal the us ’s technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , owing to heightened us scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already collapsed by more than 80 % since its 2017 level . and china , for its part , will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-governed international financial system and to shield itself from america ’s detestable us weaponization of the dollar . at the same time , the cross-border flow of data and information will be limited , raising fears of a “ splinternet ” between the us and china .
next year will almost certainly see the steep rise in america ’s corporate defaults , even as many firms entered into severe recessions with relatively strong us balance sheets . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running to many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . american debt hardly looks like a right now , even without the sinking dollar . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape , to be sure . with tax revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , a dozen american municipalities could well enter a receivership , as new yorkers did in the 1970 ’s .
collectively , their £ 55 billion in earnings outstripped entire national income in over 100 countries . how much do america ’s upper income earners make , compared to the world ’s poorest individuals ? to put these astronomical figures in perspective , i have gabriel tried to confirm that to include , among the top nine earners , you must pull in at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . well , if the bottom nine donated their earnings would be the equivalent of some three months ’ income for the bottom one . that amounts to $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 a hour per minute .
but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed in independence day in 1821 that the united states “ goes without abroad ” in its search for monsters to destroy . it is a well-wisher toward freedom and autonomy . it is the eu 's champion and vindicator of its only . american power is , instead , viewed through the “ pillar of inspiration , ” rather than as a “ pillar of action . ”
posters bear the head : “ to animals , all humans are nazis ” – a line from the polish jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . of course , peta was not arguing that the holocaust ’s destiny is both banal or trivial . on the contrary , it involved the holocaust – which we would all agree was utterly horrific to suggest , as isnc bashevis singer did – that there are parallels between how the nazis treat jews and how we treat animals . the court ruled against a united states-based animal rights group men ’s ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that the juxtapose photographs of the holocaust ’s victims with photographs of animals in the factory farms and at ablaze . according to the court , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s laws of liberty failed to protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims ’ victims appear banal and trivial ” is an offense against human dignity .
rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether by operating a dairy farm or running a government . it will not be long before such robots succeed not only to perform more complex functions , but also to learn faster than workers can receive training . avoiding barriers to technological progress requires understanding and resolution of its endurance downsides . as we continually attempt to apply for new technologies to boost human and environmental well-being , that distinction is vitally important . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots offset a growing number of workers .
lacking in export growth , thus turning a recession into greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . today , portugal is well ahead of its € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) , and spain is growing at an all-time high . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of gdp for greece . moreover , lack of export growth has made fiscal adjustment far more difficult . if greek exports rose at the same rate as those of portugal ( or spain ) , then recession would end now .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s overall exports go to the us , the effect on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . on the rare occasions that trade sanctions have been used for noncommercial reasons , they were an act of last resort , like the case of apartheid in the case of south africa , where they succeeded because they had a multilateral endorsement . in other words , a free-trade weapon was being launched neither in order to tackle a trade issue nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . given that 80 % of mexico ’s overall exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . on the rare occasions that us trade sanctions have been used for noncommercial reasons , they were an act of last resort , as was the case in the case of apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had a multilateral
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit a whopping seven billion , on october 31 . after all , the un predicts that the world ’s population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 and above ten billion by the end of this century . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , that one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , learning articles , including the usual dire malthusian predictions . such projections , however , misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but of too little .
the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as an eventual reward to the kremlin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s support in a peace effort . in theory , the negotiations are being waged between the government in kyiv and separatist leaders . russia has offered to apply what it calls its “ limited influence ” to compel rebel governments to cooperate . in exchange , the kremlin has committed itself to support – but only after changing the constitution – ukraine ’s ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its border with russia . but , if russia in fact controls the separatist regions , and it is actively integrating them into its economy , as the bild document gets indicates , the kremlin can no longer be perceived as an outside party , attempting to leverage an uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the decay of the united states power in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 , and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . back in 1991 , during the cold war , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii to lead it into a full-fledged legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , the america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the whole middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy to take root throughout the arab world . the result has been an utter failure : the military defeat and the severe degradation of america ’s very moral standing . back in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , led it into a full-fledged legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance of power after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait .
advocates of this argument suggest a different model , first and foremost . one of the oddest claims made in debates over the social-insurance system now afflicting the world ’s ’s richest countries is that government-mandated defined-benefit retirement programs ( such as america ’s ’s social security system ) are outmoded . to be sure , such accounts would fluctuate with the market , rather than rest on a defined-benefit scheme that ensures a fixed true sum of the resources at affordable retirement . such programs were fine , the argument went , for the industrialized economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generations , but became obsolete in today ’s high-technology , networked , post-industrial economies . just as corporations today are far happier in supporting workers ’ pensions by contributing to workers ’ private accounts , so governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned account transactions .
if europe has allowed these debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century is that it is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in its debt-to-gdp ratio , is mostly that of the badly flawed troika programs spain . so it is not a debt restructuring , but its absence , that is truly “ immoral . ” if europe has allowed these debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century is that it is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . does anyone in their proper minds believe that any country would voluntarily put itself on a path to what greece went through , just to get a free ride out of its creditors ?
europe and china have little interest in depressing world prices of their imports or in the resulting revenues . employment considerations , of course , are not a major issue , either . neither scenario makes much sense today , either . whereas some peripheral europe countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these countries ’ expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the european central bank ’s latter ) can do better . if europeans , spain , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s imposed tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade without reaping any of the benefits of protectionism .
this , too , is the view shared by many people in syria , even among rebels . saving obama ’s honor hardly seems to have been worth that risk . it is , perhaps , even the view of obama himself that he plays for time , desperate to turn over us approval of the attack on syria to the american congress . it is , after all , the view that most people in europe have anything to offer . it is , after all , the view held by most people in europe .
yet we typically retain to adulthood the same view of god that we formed in childhood . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack . and , with such a goal , it is not very hard to poke holes and pile up on ridicule . an old man with long beard sears gathers to us , most of us retain a somewhat literal view of the stories of his son told in the bible the new testament . leave aside in getting an even stronger case against the godlessness – remember the atrocities of the twentieth century ’s atheist totalitarians – and regards an assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide financing and most additional aid to the un mission , while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role . at the same time , the complicated chain of command envisaged an au-un force recalls some of the worst-performing features of the nato-un operations during the 1990 ’s . nonetheless , many western governments refuse to place their powers under the au ’s command , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operational oversight , and the un would establish force for overall strategic goals . but the un has found it difficult to attract sufficient un volunteers for such force , because foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that a hybrid force remains predominantly african .
new york – there was a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration , after the recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first testimony to the us congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would take into account only domestic conditions . that confirms what emerging-country institutions have been well known for some time . after all , advanced economies ’ policy has driven large and volatile capital inflows to major emerging markets , pushed up their exchange rates , and damaging their export competitiveness , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as the “ capital tsunami . ” in other words , emerging-market countries , although subject to substantial spillover effects from advanced economies ’ loose monetary policies , are on their own . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) last november , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ”
saudi arabia is not out to get the zaidis . riyadh – saudi arabia has drawn much criticism lately for its leading role in its war against the houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for acting against the country ’s poorest . others have asserted that the fight against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – is only one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia supposedly waged . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen , and , indeed , throughout the arab world .
in refusing to respond that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have demonstrated a diplomatic boon to america in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . south korea has toughened its military alliances with america ; japan has backed away from moving to withdraw its marine airbase from okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have attracted closer ties with the us . in short , china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its domestic interests and playing the balance-of-power geopolitics . most fundamentally , what is china represents in terms of its values and ideas ? to disentangle america , however , and to assume the mantle of us leadership in asia , china must do more than it pursues its own interests , or contain would-be rivals .
indeed , those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should admit that many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , is interested for the poor , while supporting families . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . earlier this year , lithuania introduced a less generous family 500 + version in 2018 . instead of insisting on payments to the expensive “ mom ” of university sets ” students on the merits of purchasing them , poles have used their 500 + benefits instead . and , while women ’s employment rates have fallen as women have left the minimum-wage jobs , salaries , particularly for store clerks , have risen sharply .
to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . different people have been able to read it to mean different things as they do . it thus comes about as little surprise that there is still a lack of peace between israelis and palestinians , despite the myriad of diplomacy by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution that happens when the principal protagonists ’ leaders are both willing and able to embrace compromise . that can be done easier to adopt .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which will bypass russia when it expires -- can not re-define russia ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze has sought to do . clearly , shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation as well . instead , georgia ’s prolonged period of economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is needed in the united states or italy . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , that should become an upper burden for the bilateral relationship , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the american and european union alike .
of course , none of this means that international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will exists . what that does mean , however , is that europe finds a way to work when it comes to eu foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany or any other eu member state , division need not be fateful . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still act coherently , even without full agreement .
likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa nations lagged by 16 years behind the developing-country average , of 14 years behind countries in south asia , and by 21 for countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs , without regard for western-style property rights . at the same time , gross enrolment in the primary , secondary , and tertiary education sector , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the developed-country average , 11 % below the south asian countries of asia , 29 % below east asia and the asia-pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and the increasing concern about food security have sparked anxieties globally . in the absence of solutions that ease the upward pressure on supply , hunger and malnutrition will increase the incidence of poverty . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher proportion of their incomes on food , they are suffering the worst , raising the risk that years of progress in poverty reduction could be reversed . the seemingly inalterable factors generating these record-setting rise in food prices – a shifts to higher-protein diets in many countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . the potential for being able to put the fed onto the table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding .
as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as the governance system and procurement laws , they are becoming too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do what they were established to do . this is no easy challenge when societies are deeply divided between ethnicity , religion , or socioeconomic status . as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing a competent state that is accountable and ruling by the rule of law is one of the crowning achievements of human civilization . it involves establishing a shared sense of “ us , ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state behaves . and that is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of stronger abiding organizations in the new and burdensome processes than they are with achieving their stated goals .
likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a sort of protector of the turks ’ dignity , and a sense of themselves as constituting great-power . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . by 2014 , he persevered the presidential palace , and surrounded himself by a guardian employees , said to evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent attempt to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – much less any – his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the lodgings and the vast resources of his office to claim credit for restoring his country ’s domestic pride , especially as he tries to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . turkey is facing a refugee crisis that dwarfs that of nato ; the proliferation of terror strikes on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
president clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to the americans -- typically most neglectful of africa , except when during a deep crisis – the dramatic transformation underway across the continent . and , at this year ’s world economic forum annual meeting in south africa , almost 900 leading businessmen from the americas , europe , asia , and africa met with a new political leadership role to chart a way forward . of course , intentions and outcomes are two distinct matters , each of which is why the economic organization and income levels are much more so than they are . africa has the long road ahead , africa . it is on most measures , several decades , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in the economic organization and income level .
in the past hundred years , the contests of polish nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war could have done so again . dying in order to save your home , in family or in some country is perhaps rational . but in martyrdom is different and dangerous , more dangerous . the moment when you believe “ better dead than a red ” you are in trouble . as the romanian philosopher e. m. carnegie puts it : “ once man loses his faculty of indifference he is a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a god about the consequences is incalculable . ”
russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; on the contrary , as long as putin continues to pursue an obsolete and antagonistic foreign policy , russia can undermine the current one . at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges , this would not be good for one . if putin is serious about diversify and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s lives , he must attract advanced technology and foreign-investment , particularly from the west . that , in a nutshell , has been the soviet model that failed once and would fail again . for that , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic connections with the west .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions cast wrench in the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering far-reaching equality and fairness ? unions ’ rising clout is apparent at many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for postal employee workers ; a few american presidential contenders ’ open-ended misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent fear of labor standards . one path or the other , the unions stand out as the main wild card for the unraveling of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond . together with their political clout , trade unions ’ intellectual respectability are also experiencing a renaissance .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has dimmed two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate a global hydropower-equipment export market . second , state-run hydropower industries ’ rising clout within china led the us government to campaign aggressively for offshore dam projects by offering low return to other governments . sinohydro power , on their own , has eclipsed western suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control half the market . yet the ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers have embroiled the country in water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea .
new york – many recurrent debates in american foreign policy have their origins in the politics of isolationism versus internationalism , and unilateralism versus multilateralism are read around the world . during the cold war , there were those who argue that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , shore up its communist system , compensate it with democratic capitalism . others perceived this to be too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , with america opting instead for a policy of containment , working to curb the reach of soviet power and influence . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign-policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the externalities of other states and those who hold that it should shape their own internal nature . this debate between the “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and longstanding .
second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool to forge “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that might claim to be her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided definitions of this phrase , owing to fear of antagonizing her party of hardline europhobes . but in her florence speech , may has promised british firms something close to the current level of eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as in norway and switzerland . if britain ’s ’s ’s ’s transition payments to transition payments have continued near current levels of € 10 billion ( $ 1.9 billion ) for the next five years , or six years realistically required to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , she will add on equal terms .
may has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit by may . even if may manages to strike the exit deal , her sector-by-sector trade deal is impossible in less than two years to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector trade deal . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , took seven years to hash out seven years , almost scotching from belgium ’s parliament ’s wallonia region . there can be no “ no phased implementation ” of a trade deal not finalized , so uk-based automobile companies , financial institutions , and other exporting firms to the eu now should start preparing for a “ cliff edge ” that may wants to avoid . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave want to remain in the single market would be the same as would all of those voting to remain .
a well-functioning private sector that generates adequate jobs , and that schools that train the country ’s large young population for today ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites to progress . open societies are inherently incompatible with closed economies . this , in turn , is of real importance , as well as being healthy . the israeli-palestinian issue is critical , for all the obvious , reason . for the first time , there is lively and intelligent discussion about this issue , which is at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles .
the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that reality ’s salience for the establishment , although the orthodox leaders who supported ponta , quickly adjusted their campaign rhetoric to foster tolerance and cooperation . the electorate looked tired of a persistent confrontation between ceausescu and ponta and , and , more generally , between the noisy , ugly and the treacherous burkinlesque that their country ’s ruling political scene has become . this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict its victory over the more talkative ponta . but iohannis different not only in his political approach ; he is evangelical lutheran in a predominantly orthodox country . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished himself from the charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanians are used , proving some bright , laconic , and a pragmatic administrator .
the dalai lama recently helped launch a number of such courses in london , being developed through happiness action , an organization that i helped find . in fact , how countries are governed has a vast happiness impact . british prime minister david cameron has introduced the measurement of happiness into its national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to boost citizen ’s well-being . some of these can be learned or cultivated , and student classes that teach hugely positive mental habits – such as the wellcome trust , which matters , or shirking dwelling on setbacks , have shown measurable improvements in wellbeing . an entire company can also make the effort to improve its happiness .
more recently , there has been an american event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that has left at least 1,400 of them dead . israel is but a tiny fraction of that overall pattern . all of this raises a larger question : does the american even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the outcome is to make its own foreign policy seem to be less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does n’t . the new world order has given ordained worldview , in which reliability and unpredictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle liabilities .
the financial services act of 1986 put an end to a pure regime of self-regulation . the most dangerous trends , including a upsurge of global imbalances and the us economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously from some point of view of 2004 onwards . likewise , returning to the 1980 ’s , the origins of its loan explosion and proliferation of exotic and badly understood financial instruments that lie at the heart of the 2007-08 crisis . thatcher herself was not a credit enthusiast , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in a credit card . ” financial interests opposed it vigorously in a time , viewing it as the thinly ended of a dangerous wedge , although they could not have assessed just how thick that drive eventually became .
indeed , iranian hardliners may be welcoming an israeli strike , and even seeking to provoke it , as a means of rallying the iranian population behind them . alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . there is a better way to prevent nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” ” built on an incentive-free zone that includes economic and technical support to countries that join , as well as security guarantees from the un security council ’s permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to stay out and , once again , backed up by the security council ’s permanent members – imposing military sanctions against those who are trying to develop wmds . a unilateral us military strike , it seems , would undertake potentially dire consequences .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocities , internet images of deadly assaults on civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our “ heart . ” more recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near certainty that russia would veto the united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgents , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood will eventually flow again . but what is to be done in theory , and by whom ?
it is far too soon to assess the historic effect of the arab spring ; but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that both israel and its palestinian neighbors have very little to do with it . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s ’s ’s countries to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity-building , human rights , and on how to create economies responding to their restive citizens ’ demands over a better life . now that the raucous regionally are joining the raucous american election season ( where no matter what is excluded from the political arena ) , the challenge of assembling those constituent parts will become even more difficult . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public rising expectations , and their unwillingness to get behind the peace process has taken a backseat to this struggle . for the americans ( and others ) who have come to believe that the arab world is thinking of nothing short of a palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have been persuaded otherwise .
london – vulnerable communities face the brunt of the challenges of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and those numbers are considerably higher when informal smes comprise them . when an sme builds its own climate resilience , it can have cascading effects within the community around it . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate action could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should support small and medium-size enterprises .
we could also place a greater emphasis on black carbon reduction , presumed to be responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming , and one-third of the arctic thasts . and , because methane is a much shorter-lived gas below co2 , we can avoid some of the worst short-term warming through its mitigation . indeed , agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also generates gasoline . agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also generate gasoline . we could also put a greater emphasis on black carbon reduction , treated as responsible for just as about 40 % of current net warming , and one-third of the arctic melt .
it never had to deal with others as equal , in contrast to traditional european powers that did so for centuries . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , adopting a symbol resembling a sculpture of liberty . today , too , it is not america of military strength that poses a threat or challenges to china , but rather an enduring attraction of “ the american dream ” ” ” as well . in short , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s challenge , nonetheless , may prove to be even more difficult . it has not only had to live with the realities of us power ; it must also account for the american ideal .
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom ’s current government – would represent a tipping point . a stronger , more unified europe , that argument goes , could then be competitive with the us and china across most domains – including by “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of a us g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it is far from clear how the eu will achieve the necessary scale of integration when most major decisions within the bloc still call for unanimity among member states . by bolstering its own strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make this g3 world a reality .
both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections within specific industries . after all , that is how the us administration was dealing with canada and mexico . while the us has on average fewer tariff protections than europe does , the difference is smaller ( europe ’s unweighted customs duty averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for america ) . regulatory divergences are a far more important impediment to us-european trade than tariffs . trump has temporarily exempted those two us countries from tariffs , but now expects concessions from it in his administration to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement .
how can a commercial company not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile , unless i pay their charges on a diagnostic test that might be made fair enough , but also that it blocks any other firm from proposing me a similar exam unless those firms pay it a license fee ? we do not have to believe in a form of genetic determinism to find this argument compelling . true , proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most basic element of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . do n’t i have the rights of controlling my own body ? do n’t i have rights of control over my own body ?
humans are no exception in this respect , either . for that reason , the international secretariat of the global alliance against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for promoting decriminalization . at the same time , there was opposition from some feminist organizations that accused an amnesty for protecting “ the right of pairing and johns hopefully . ” in species that reproduce sexually transmitted sex , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive aspirations . instead , they argued , we should “ “ “ “ “ end ” the demands of paid sex ” have been made available , only to explain how that choice is to be made . ”
propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets won a growing share of soaring merchandise trade ; as a result , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows by 2014 . since the great recession , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , mostly owing to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and sharply plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural shifts also play a role . as a result , many companies are making low-cost and reshoring of their supply chains . for a wide range of goods , automation means that production location and outsourcing decisions no longer depend mainly on labor costs .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talking about withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether the security situation warrants it or not . according to rice , anything less than the residual force of more than 10,000 american soldiers will send the message that america is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that will embolden russian president vladimir putin further . for its part , the us evidently believes that a continued military presence in afghanistan serves its interests . what she does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a key conduit for american military supplies in afghanistan , might undercut its basing strategy . nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support in the us to maintain its military outposts in afghanistan as a means of projecting hard power , and an increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably .
no doubt , the polish government paralyzed the court , undermining the rule of law in poland . in a sign of what is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of double standards and contracting . ” according to waszczykowski , poland not only must have drastically cut [ its ] level of trust in the eu ; ” but “ “ “ “ also must ” pursue a harmful policy , ” ” ” ” by blocking other initiatives , or playing a very aggressive eu game . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already initiated that strategy by refusing to sign off on the summit its official record , as though this would render them legally imperiled to poland . such infantile ploys have also become all overly characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publish the polish constitutional tribunal ruling , as though this is making them legally meaningless .
we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but possibilities for vastly increased use of inexpensive , university-educated , and environmentally friendly solar power are vast . this will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , rather than a “ “ “ “ “ fight to finish ” over the middle east ’s oil . ” important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal to power liquids ( such as gasoline ) , the use of tar sands and oil shale , as well as the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar-based solar power , zero-emitting technologies , and a safe , reliable nuclear power . solar radiation is equal at roughly 10,000 times our current levels of energy use .
there was a brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru jackets and the maoist revolution , but its short time was clear . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you pass photos of mao ’s chairman , you n’t make this happen with anyone anyhow . ” in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up pictures of poverty and starvation . by the late century ’s end , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese affluent , but also bolstered the country ’s soft power . asia ’s resurgence began , with japan as its economic success .
but the eu can add significant value by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding a duplicity of domestic spending . for example , the eu ’s proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband internet to rural areas , as well as the growth of its transport and energy infrastructure . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and far more efficient transport links . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size enterprises – not cut funding for important research programs like the horizon of 2020 . but , with post-conflagration austerity and the eu looking to spur spending , the council should also consider the shape budget , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment .
in 1997 denmark , citizens whose people are demonstrably committed to upholding human-rights resolutions asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . in response , china responded by canceling the danish trade mission . france got that message ; the french soon gave up the promotion of human-rights resolutions directed at china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be steadily more muted . the french were then rewarded by a string of lucrative treaties in china .
it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness epidemic programs . the global agenda in this area determines the norms and norms that shape how the public and private players promote health , prevent illness , and administer care . within the sdg framework , separate gender and health challenges are intertwined , because gender alone is a significant driver of health outcomes . gender can influence as soon as one forms the tobacco industry , exercises periodically , or has access to nutritious food . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and guaranteeing everyone ’s right to health .
“ each of us , ” noted sandra day o’connor , a senior female member from the american supreme court , listening for not wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” justice , is bringing our job to whatever it is , our lifetime of experience and our values . still , it is only a plurality of women ’s presence that has any impact at all . for example , studies by america ’s us courts with multiple justices prove that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases in which one woman is on the bench and substantially more willing when one second woman is added . in other words , women bring a breath of fresh perspective ; clearly , only when a critical mass in either institution is present . consider a female voter ’s view of conflict .
our hands become dirty when our assistance is helped by one terrorist or a dictator , so we can fight one one one another over the other . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds up , but that this gets one ’s hands dirty in this way is often the right thing to do . but choosing greater good does n’t absolve us from moral culpability . ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma .
but , in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled , because they were perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been barred from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often became subject to another saudi policy went awry , its propagation for the export of sunni , wahhabi form of islam . with the new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen due to saudi financial aid , it little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis grew exponentially . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
for some patients with some cancers , there has been some revolutionary therapy , allowing those who were on the brink of death to live healthy lives with no detectable footprints of diseases . independently , honjo and its colleagues have identified another protein that performs a similar function . these crucial studies have now led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . yet , even so , the nature of the immunotherapies revolution remains in its infancy – still largely in the process of disease . but we still have a lot to learn .
unless it changes , it will overture . the good news is that , if any place has proved that it can innovate , it is just silicon valley . but it has followed this macro level approach and problems elsewhere in the us economy , with no examination of itself . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their skill at innovation – and their pride in “ breaking things ” to themselves . the only way to evolve is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now by silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior – faces many of them .
if farmers have confidence that their goats wo n’t be stolen , and can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest in upgrading their manufacturing system . for starters , we have trained farmers to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , multiple residues that can use as goat fodder . recognizing the advantages of such practices , farmers have immediately begun increasing crop density , applying dung , as well as rotating crops , thereby boosting yields and producing more feed for healthier goats . here , too , the platform for innovation is helping . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to develop a positive feedback loop .
with fears of increased inequality already rising , governments will need to rethink policies to provide incomes and job-transition support to displaced workers . that may have been an extreme situation . in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for almost 50 years , before recovering again . but , for less-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should maintain five imperatives in mind .
to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process in which all were deeply involved . less than three years later , the set of reform recommendations , produced by kagame and the pan-african committee of experts he appointed – through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other stakeholders – are on the implementation of the process . at a 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failures to implement plenty of choices . this is largely a matter of thinking , not its means . fortunately , mindsets are , mindsets are beginning to shift .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil 's star central banker , issues bond prices in new york , and use the dollar proceeds to enlarge the country 's international reserves . at best , market participants will beat the decision ; at worst , they will remain indifferent , for brazil 's ’s net debt position will not change . more fundamentally , why are us thinking about reserves quite different than we might be about other assets on their national balance sheets ? both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not allowed to intervene in a currency market through purchases and sales of reserves . now suppose that one of argentina 's private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , and that uses the dollars to enlarge one of its modern-day , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse to set the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has been investing in an expansive national digital plan , which is expected to generate 1.1 million additional jobs over the next 3-5 years , and has contributed $ 101 trillion to gdp over the next decade . despite having led the internet race in the 1990s , the us is now the only major developed economy , without a clear digitization plan . the consequences are already beginning to show : according to the bloomberg innovation index ’s 2016 index , “ america is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , ” has fallen two spots since 2015 . whereas other countries are encountering a robust , knowledge-based system is falling behind .
beyond financing constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . in georgia , for example , politically relevant parties that cover at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral rolls receive a 30 % supplement from the national budget . likewise , in iran , political parties lose 50 % of their state-level financing when their candidate pool involves fewer than 30 % of either gender . fortunately , when it comes to tackling this problem , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address it . in particular , greater care responsibilities , bolstered by public perceptions of a “ “ woman first ” role , ” severely undermine women ’s capacity to run for public office .
moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to push for an agreement . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . by any reckoning , iran is a society deeply divided between those that want their country to be a well-respected member of the international community , and those for which iran ’s international standing is better served through its nuclear-weapons program . that may well be true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely anxious to the will of the people . the ensuing international sanctions against iran would appear to support the latter even more than the former .
one hopes that the paris agreement will change this . for starters , patient finance must also be made available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . because we do not yet know which innovations will be the most crucial in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be allocated to a wide range of choices . the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” will be public-private partnerships among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engagement between the public and private sectors .
but these challenges will not be realized , and the opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long committed to giving its children , particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds , high-quality education . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s quality education system from now to 2030 . even so , senegal is struggles to fulfill all the costs of strengthening its educational system .
the objective must be to drive european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe toward the forefront of global security . europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make progress without a well functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunities for all european suppliers . advances in the defense-sector result in significant positive externalities – such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development – that are critical to growth , innovation , and the future competitiveness of the eu . as member states advance along this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , finding avenues for eliminating unnecessary spending and reintegrating resource use will be found . a critical component in europe ’s coordinating and proper well-functioning security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s pose far beyond its shark-fishing industry . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 per annually , or $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; the same shark would be worth around $ 108 dead . it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that the shark ’s economic value plummets once it gets killed . for example , china has banned the shark-fin soup , a traditional delicacy , at official government dinners , and function – a move that has contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december and april . in the southern cities of guangzhou , the center for china ’s shark-fin trades , sellers have accounted for an estimated 82 % drop in sales over the past two years .
despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing with a dictator with milosevic was simple . tudjman ’s pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power in ways it fought for its struggle against serbian aggression . to accomplish this with a bare fuss , he muzzled the press and the electronic media . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and a partition of territory . the truth is that he used the negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and an german-style plunder of state properties through his coterie of loyalists .
the current proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any candidate it does not like , prompting criticism that what lies on offer is an iranian-style election : “ you can vote for anyone we choose . ” according to the underlying law , the election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – an provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . as of this year ’s congress , 55-61 % of voters voted overwhelmingly for democratic candidates in the legislative council . its membership elects only 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting process attempts to prevent the nomination of any candidate who might harbor democratic sympathies . hong kong ’s government could call upon changes to increase its openness and fairness by which the chief executive is chosen , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage .
in promoting democracy , liberals dismiss the argument exploited by today ’s rulers that first-free elections would most likely be the last , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . january ’s palestinian elections won a relatively moderate leader because he put forward with the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted the elections . in gaza , however , soon afterward , radical islamists who employed terrorism had won seven out of ten municipal councils in power . reformers insist that the vast majority support moderate solutions , or at a minimum that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and control . at the same time , that case remains on record .
increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . the shakeout in the clean-tech sector has been stark ; but it has also been characteristic of emerging-market technologies and , through weeding out weaker players , has made the sector even more robust . as clean-tech firms continue their scale , incremental opportunities for improvement are set to grow . in fact , there is little room to doubt that the sub-tech industry can expect plenty of sunshine days ahead . in fact , this has been the world ’s segments meeting with a growing global need .
princeton – the economic gloom surrounding the world in 2008 led many to wonder whether the true prosperity that preceded it was . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , brazil , russia , and the united states , the number of governing billionaires has ballooned . but the gap between those rich and poor has widened , at least in the us , between the poor and the middle class ’s stagnated.ampnbsp ; in the same way , the top 1 % of the us population has prospered . no wonder that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-funded regimes to bail out governments , insurance companies , and even automakers .
more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and chairman of the g20 , the financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg landon , have issued its announcement on market data about climate data . yet , given the magnitude of the challenge , the challenge also remains to be seen , while ensuring effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with associated standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . global awareness on the topic is mounting . for one thing , the american securities and exchange commission is already discussing these issues , because it analyzes problem-solving options on investor and business needs with respect to esg issues . their overarching goals are to enable companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and core performance indicators ; to monitor , prepare , and to disclose their comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and to integrate sustainable production and consumption practices into company business strategies and models .
this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations sustainable development conference in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . the success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize equal levels of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession during the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis . specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity while establishing more sustainable methods for producing it . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize equal levels of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis . but the outcomes the world urgently needs – viable financing options and frameworks to foster an economic transformation , just as integrated environmental and sustainable-development administration can not be achieved without the political will .
new york – the year 2008 global financial markets experienced their worst financial crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . global equities markets crashed by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch emerged ; and many emerging-market economies are rebounding to the international monetary fund for help . major financial institutions went bust ; the rest were bought on the cheap or survived only after major bailouts . so , just as then , is what lies ahead in 2009 ? has the worst possible us or forward ?
and it takes just a moment on twitter or advertisement to confirm the old adage : “ when it bleeds , it leads . ” add to that a second kind of psychological bias neuroscientists discusses : because our species have evolved to fend off harm , we tend to be more sensitive to bad news . we have responded more generously to portrayals of starving children than to news about improved levels of nutrition in africa . good news is n’t news ; media executives often mutter to death . and , of course , we tend to remember those hounds much longer .
this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change brought about by the internet in china ’s political landscape . it has apparently begun to appreciate the constraints of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . nowadays , the us government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process it . a “ virtual ” astirest of the civil society is in the making . insightful bloggers are attracting many more clicks than are their official mouthpieces .
new york – countries often devote their public funds to promoting export of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting imports – as china does to its inaugural international import expo that has just opened up in shanghai – is truly rare . but that is not to be the case , either . an annual import expo to be part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with promises of major orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises that the expo is tasked with achieving success . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect that it will reduce china ’s trade surplus .
london – the late historian norman stone , who died in june , has always insisted that the life of history students learns foreign languages . knowledge of languages should thus be an indispensable component of an eminent historian . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . its history tells us how it sees itself , as well as to others . language provides access to people ’s culture and culture to its history .
the first nagging question is this : will elections actually come next january ? while that scenario is simple , reality does not . the probability that iraq ’s elections being held this coming january must be down below 50 % , a fact that the us is certain that these will not be a free and fair election across the entire country . prime minister amina allawi assures the world that there will be , and president bush echo through his word . more high-level observers – and indeed , the daily news establishment about the bombings and a hostage of taking and “ rebels ” – cast doubt on that prospect .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election this month , the issue of how trump won still governs , with russia ’s role moving increasingly to the center stage . but making amends through technical fixes and public-promise to be better corporate citizens will tackle only its most publicized problem . each new revelation in an investigation of russia ’s meddling in the us 2016 campaign brings the american democratic process ’s vulnerability to sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation to compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who purchase online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes that russia exploited during the election . the tougher challenge will be strengthened the institutions that are vitally important to the functioning of democracy , specifically , civics education , and local journalism .
in the american presidential campaign , the defense of trade is fashionable once again . but while import restrictions may alleviate the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not stop firms from relocating where growth opportunities are the most powerful . so far , they will not protect workers against technological change ; they will be wrong . but if the ends are clear , politicians are often clueless . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s development patterns .
algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments are reluctant to seek a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats generating violent theocrats and refugees in order to re-launch . but four decades of a military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , most of whom have never actually benefited from their country ’s wealth or its potential . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants – there are two critical issues for europe , arab military dictators , with an inglorious record . getting “ stuck in transition ” is the third possible scenario , with libya remaining in a “ greenpeace ” zone ” – neither a fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship – but “ semi-free . ” a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his own sons might end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credit and political capital .
third , whereas muslims might be able to testify against whomever , christianity , and jews could attest only against another non-muslim . when an muslims , and a non-muslim woman faced each other in her trial , the muslim enjoyed a significant advantage . first , by receiving an training that predisposed them to give benefits , any doubt to a fellow muslims . second , court employees were completely muslim , implying that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim ’s perspective . but , of course , when they were engaged in a case against a muslim that was forced to be handled in an islamic court .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel did have the right to attack the osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb the israeli nuclear facility at dimona . some suggest that a real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might occur if the weapons of mass destruction are deployed . but there is no way of making an objective assessment of fear , and , although feasible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of domestic sovereignty and international law . a better way of giving a sense of “ self-defense ” is to invoke two principles that underlie the claims of the logic in both domestic as well as in international law . they employ a joint-benefit analysis , based on some subjective sense of danger .
a critical meeting of the un general assembly will take place at the end of september for that purpose . most economies are becoming less equitable , with a widening gap between the world ’s rich and poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to such outbreaks . faced with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at the group +20 summit in rio +20 to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate the drafting of these goals by 2015 to ensure the seamless transition from the un millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire this year .
an argentine , jordanian , or spaniard who can visualize and generate thriving global demand for a product or service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as entrepreneur as the next bill gates . it is high time that the diplomats are willing to do the same . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are staring down on their own populations as pools of waiting to be tapped . they should support and encourage job creators and problem solvers , and turn development aid into investment . today , startups with an estimated 182,000 people worldwide spend 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined .
though such politicians often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' their actual policies , such as those of former romanian prime minister vladimir meciar , actually reflect a demagogic populist or authoritarian regime . the eu 's political right in every central european country also has an influence on experiences rooted in their histories and traditions . political developments in slovakia over the last 20 years have set the czech republic and slovakia , besides both poland and hungary . whereas both poland and the hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization that allowed relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside of post-communist control , slovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 became a donbas regime . when the former communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland 's communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into a credible , democratic-left party that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people , in the manner that america is prepared to do among people in various states . a third major difference is that it puts all of america ’s constitutions in order to balance their annual operating budgets . while “ rainy day ” funds that have been accumulating in the boom years are being used to cope with a temporary shortfall of revenue , states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing constrains capital projects like roads and schools . while “ rainy day ” funds that have been piled in the boom years are being used to deal with temporary revenue shortfalls , states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing constrains capital projects like roads and schools . the third important difference is that it puts all american states in their constitutions in order to balance their annual operating budgets .
i have no doubt that back sometime later this century , one can buy stocks of pocket professors , perhaps with holographic images as readily as one can purchase a purse kasparov chess computer today . i certainly do not feel secure as an economics professor ! globalization has been at a steep pace through much of the past century , and at most accelerating rates over the past two decades . yet an extensive body of evidence suggests that technological change has been a far bigger driver in global wage patterns than it does in trade . so , in the process , let us go back to india and china .
specialization in each country enables people to acquire more of what they want , which – particularly at higher levels of income – comprises cleaner air and fresh water . so , is trade globalization , on balance , for better or worse for the environment ? some empirical studies from the cross-country figures find a net beneficial effect on environmental degradation indicators such as local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , trade , and growth give them the means to clean up their air . when trade drives down costs , it can reap higher benefits from environmental goods , just as it benefits other goods .
tokyo – throughout the cold war , the concept of kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what was taking place at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . great importance was read into who signed the official document , or who stands where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when review military parades . kremlinologists have monitored ( to whatever extent possible ) who was up and down among the core soviet leadership . all this came with grammar-school stuff compared to efforts to decode the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . consider what happened on december 17 .
in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is now being inventing “ spill-over ” reports ” for a handful of sub-systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its countries ( article iv ) consultations . even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is hard to see how this exercise would solve a crucial problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparently unwillingness to reconcile vastly different domestic interests . that initiative is destined to fail – as has either the imf ’s own multilateral exercise of surveillance or the g-20 ’s peer reviews in recent history . so , what , in any case , should latin american economies do ? they surely have the right to defend one another , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent hoarding of reserves ( potentially lucrative options when capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because they are the key frontlines of defense . east asian countries followed that advice , for a good reason : they saw the consequences of insufficient reserves . if china let its currency float then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . the imf had the money they needed . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but were powerless to resist .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare is based on a country ’s massachusetts ’ health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a diverse set of energy-policy policies , from broad climate activism plans to mandated renewable-energy norms , 33 states cut carbon-dioxide emissions while expanding their economies . more recently , certain states have put forward cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , with many already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan . more recently , several us states have implemented cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , with many already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan . three states have implemented laws offering pay-as-you-go family leave , fourth on track .
cambridge – “ i ’d like myself to be part of it – new york , new york , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” frank sinatra sang of a city that has attracted so much of the world ’s most ambitious people , from their artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this is not a very difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals , are rife with opportunities . but the impact on big cities runs a deeper rather than an economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally transform people of their lives – and even of the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey west , teamed up with a team of researchers , discovered that a number of socioeconomic measures , both affirmative and negative , increase with the local population ’s size . in other words , larger cities , higher average real wages , productivity levels of patents per person , crime rates , prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv itself .
at a time when american nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – were sustained by america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier responsibility when the accident hit , some regard india ’s spurning of america ’s aircraft as an all-bugratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india is aiding america , too . a ruling made on these technical grounds , many feel , would be easier to defend than one based on political thought . against this is the unambiguous benefits of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in delivering , training , and operations that has so far been developed . as if all of this were not enough to make the decision to american people , amlo may well have been india ’s desire to shirk any additional procurement controversy at a time when accusations of corruption beset it from any party to all parties . ( the eventual winner of the proposal will probably be required to enter into the joint-production arrangement with india that us firms would not . )
in the case of the banks that require state rescues , europe ’s rules of competition are requiring divestment and downsizing . as a result , the large transnational institutions are being lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly for fiscal bailouts , should that supervision and regulation fail ) . even stronger banks are being pressured to increase their capital buffers . in most cases , that means continuing to cut back on lending , aggravating the effect of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for a time headed by the world ’s largest international banks , are rebranded as the eu ’s directorate general for competition .
north korea promptly did just that , threatening to take the back of its “ enveloping ” punch line on american territory from guam . more ominous , according to a more confidential american intelligence paper , north korea achieved the capability to miniaturize on nuclear warheads and may have as many as 60 bombs . trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked in and loaded . ” the stakes are soaring in kim and trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s chicken game . and , indeed , how rhetorical fire exchange has unfolded , america was reportedly preparing the revised military options for the striking north koreans .
the first is that we all owe , at least , some of our success to others , given the public goods that a society provides . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that have benefited the most from each other ’s solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the contributions the latter need . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining the highest salaries , not for even moral reasons but because of the unsustainability of the regime . but do not hold your breath waiting for them to reach agreement . there can be two conclusions from all this .
after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have in greece a government that so opposed the kinds of policies that have done so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that are so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth . the economy would suffer because the underlying economic model predicated on power relationships that at the expense of disadvantaged workers . they understood that unemployment would rise if the country were to set its domestic monetary policies , which have focused single-mindedly on inflation ( as well as an inadequate measure of financial stability ) . and , to be sure enough , what we are now seeing , 16 years after the euro institutionalized these relations are the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . when sweden ’s had done , swedes said no .
durham – this year , islamist politics have faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s ’s first freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggered by the military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political ineptitude and his lack of vision in the face of an economic implosion would have done much to alleviate support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and his pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the hands of the brotherhood and place itself beyond egypt ’s climate-change review , has proved to be his undoing . yet it is too soon to write off political islam as a capable participant – even a leading power – in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in the journal science produced the results of research that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to fit the dna of male and female patients from different ages . the next day , british researchers at newcastle university announced that they were successful in producing a cloned human embryo that uses donated eggs and genetic material by stem cells . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , meaning they have the capacity to develop into any type of human tissue . both breakthroughs represent the stunning advance in stem cell research . this carries tremendous promise , especially for the sufferers of spinal cord injuries and diseases .
this includes reining in the tradable-permit program ’s tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay and eliminating exemptions from permits to firms or industries . such actions would not only spur fiscal sustainability ; incremental revenues could total 2 % of gdp , but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . in recent decades , many of the largest global firms have engaged in new technology to reduce employee layers , from top managers to factory employees , thereby lowering costs and efficiency gains . china ’s government , on the other hand , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure – beginning with the central government , moving down through provinces , prefectures , districts , township and villages since its founding 70 years ago . finally , by making it more efficient , china can reduce its government ’s expenditure ( in the medium term ) by making its vast administrative hierarchy .
now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . indeed , the risks of a world free of nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number – are tremendous . nuclear deterrence , the threat of killing hundreds of thousands or millions of people , is a concept that does not fit into traditional morality . yet it has worked , preemptively , to prevent catastrophic wars while making people seem more civilized and cautious . when one poles of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of liberal-democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia .
as the tragedy unfolded , researchers gained more understanding . a infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of replication . prions , it appears , are to defy any conventional wisdom , survive pressure-cooking , inre-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c over the next four hours , with treatments that are routinely and reliably used to deactivate all of the known viruses and bacteria . moreover , prions lack their own genes , because they can not survive their mother ’s mother . the prion gene provides it with an infection-screened individual in whom it resides in a innocuous state .
but the us experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music executive to participate in fundraising need not be bad for a artistic side of work . indeed , some conductors rather than wanting to carry the tin cup as it waves their batons to reject important posts in the americas for that reason , feel that it will interfere with their artistic background . performing arts proponents in europe points to america , where , among other things , the music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to come full membership in the field of fundraising activities , and to be proactive in the local community on orchestras its name . at the same time , they are afraid , will come to a head in europe . daniel barenboim is reputed to have left the city of chicago symphony orchestra partly because he opposed the fundraising demands that trump carried out .
the council is more likely to accept the possibility of mounting a punitive airstrike program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force targets . this would hurt and weaken saddam , and establish unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . at the same time , the council could declare that any kind of fresh aggression or any use , threat or transfers of wmd , triggers saddam ’s removal and his persecution as the international criminal like slobodan milosevic . curiously , it would make the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to secure its approval . we should not forswear that possibility , but that we ought to contemplate others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legally crucial – might never support invasion .
some of the inspectors that he knew well , having dined with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna in 2004 . soon thereafter , dr. ahmed returned to tarmiya in tarmiya . this time , they knew exactly what the giant magnets were for : to produce weapons of mass nuclear material . this time , dr. ahmed , his iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . that he would lie to them so brazenly were incomprehensible to his friends on the inspections team .
but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact on economic growth . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality will rise steeply and then decline , in a pattern that is inverted “ inverted ” “ u ” or brazil , as the countries underwent their economic development . ” given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience is now one of the most unequal countries in the world . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . china , after all , is now one of the most unequal countries in the world .
it must also mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens an institutional means to settle their disputes . pakistan held a free and fair election in 2002 and 2007 , and is set to be prepared to hold its next in late 2012 or early in 2013 . having the supreme court not removed gilani , he would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term . so pakistan has moved one further toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . of course , democracy has always meant more than periodically holding free and fair elections .
this year , europe ’s peoples are marking the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . that , 20 years after the epochal event that an iron curtain remains around cuba , makes that anniversary poignant . to be sure , the tourists who crowds cuba ’s beaches remain around cuba are making that anniversary poignant . but , no matter this ignorance , and to its own economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing its political prisoners and using all international institutions to bring pressure to bear on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil liberties in cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s people . on the contrary , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of its individual conscience , as well as its criminalize demands for a society-wide dialogue .
some have claimed that the uprising in burma is over . that , in just a year , is what the junta wants the world to think . but we are genuine , with thousands of us , out of rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrated for the sake of peace . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country . brigadier general kyaw island officer hsan josé , the army ’s officer corps , recently told un special envoy , ibrahim gambari , that the marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ”
for example , though plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he , like any other ancient greeks , condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-european ) of the greeks . today , on the other hand , plato ’s “ philosophical ” – say , plato ’s “ media escorts ” – could have easily explained why slavery is wrong : “ man is the person . ” plato , however , would most likely marvel at the world of moral progress . after all , he believed that being a “ “ philosopher ” meant presumes the responsibilities of a moral reformer . yet , while morality has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths the us now takes for granted .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged in the wake of the conflict , particularly in violent hubs . such efforts must be supported by advances in another area : rural development , which is the single economic issue that is being addressed by a un peace treaty . that is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that have characterized rural colombia have given birth to the farc largely , with the spread concentrated in such areas as the conflict . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities at which the farc has been involved may also qualify as an economic concern , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but this is , first and foremost , a security concern . ) here , as well as the transnational civil-society organizations , along with the regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play ; and colombia ’s past experience is overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , is putting headlines on the global stage . the rate of youth unemployment exceeded 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , spain , ireland , bulgaria , cyprus , hungary , slovakia , and slovakia , surpasses 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , over 30 % of working-age seekers under the age of 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , their chances of job seekers remain low . more than 7.5 million people aged 15 to 24 are “ neets ” – not in jobs , education , or skills training . the roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are jobless .
still , the american supreme court has set standards such high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . so developing countries worry that trying to establish the type of `` contest '' within trade negotiations will only make life potentially even more difficult . nor are trade negotiators even discussing to eliminate this double standard . indeed , when domestic commercial laws were applied internationally , maybe a majority of firms within the us would be guilty of dumping . foreign manufacturers are accused of being unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers .
if that happens , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . but libra ’s benefits seem like a slippery form of pisces . for emerging economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization merely to catch up to the even worse thatching case . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to keep it from becoming cancer .
the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with the last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the immediate cause of the protests was a new fuel tax . the added cost was not all large ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) ; but fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of its growth patterns only in developing countries , although the precise dynamics depend on many factors . for starters , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think of a 5-7 % annual rate ) than it was in a low-return – or no-growth environment , where the incomes and opportunities of a subset of the population are either stagnant or falling .
to divide the people to conquer them is an immoral strategy , one that has endured throughout its recorded history . from alexander the great to stalin through the harsh , variants of that strategy have used to keep nations in thrall to the willingness of the imperial people . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president since , putin , has since said that he can work with whatever ukraine ’s government chooses to do . we now confront this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over lands treated as “ lost truth ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overturning his hand in ukraine ’s recent elections , putin has made it quite clear to the world its neo-imperialist designs .
what she fails to acknowledge is that america , too , is forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall . either way , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine ’s doctrine is burden-sharing . america is running both a fiscal deficit – with total expenditures ( from which defense comprised 14.8 % of gdp in 2017 ) far exceeding its revenues – and a current-account deficit . as long as those twin deficits run at an anemic growth rate of just above 3 % of gdp , net us debt to the rest of the world , currently at about 40 % of gdp , will double in less than 24 years . skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase its defense spending .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten the export-oriented industrialization strategy that fueled many countries ’ growth in recent decades . by exploiting plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activity , create jobs , attract investment , and , in some cases , recapture the broader industrialization process . but , for those firms that embraced the window of opportunity for diminishing costs by shifting production to the developing world , there was always a trade-off : offshore production meant limited ability to respond rapidly to shifts in consumer demand . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” ” robots , and other non-human tools , companies could as well move their manufacturing sites closer to their closing markets . now , the technologies may offer another possibility , too .
even wives of men watching the play at home have other issues to deal with . for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has a husband who is diehard manchester united fan . every season breaks at least one piece of his furniture , when his team loses . she has turned her furniture , at least twice since her married four years ago . couches are lighted with beer and kicked as it cheers her favorite teams .
that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift to the understanding of homicidal monsters as another . in fact , has any monster not yet been considered a potential conveyor of a revolutionary idea ? the idea that a lethal monster can symbolize a protester or an out-cast , and that is why it is their merits sympathy , watering down by french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s account of the origins of irrational violence and hate against another – ethnic or religious minorities who have been demonized and victimized – deleuze and guattari extended his concept of otherness to the vampire . increasingly , such protagonists have become the target of academia ’s attention , cultural criticism , and a popular culture itself .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , on the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . but a shutting down debate simply means the disappearance of public-policy reason . hansen argues that , “ the first actions that people are supposed to take are to make use of the democratic process . ” in march , al gore ’s ’s book science advisor and a prominent climate researcher jim hansen described that when it comes to tackling global warming , that “ the democratic process does n’t work . ” while science has shown that co2 from fossil fuels heats up the planet , policymakers are reluctant to follow his advice and stop building coal-fired power plants .
the campaign-finance law has been revised to provide additional government funding to the parties that meet a quota , reducing the amount for parties that do not . indeed , according to the swedish parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place globally in terms of the share of female mps , very much ahead of 121st-ranked japan . and though south korea slipped from the 80th place in the ipu ’s nearly the most recent rankings , the drop reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries . the rise of female mps led not only to the rise of members of the female cabinet , but also to diverse policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women . female mps , for their part , have been the primary reason for the rise of female mps to introduce a quota system under which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female .
for bingham , the laws must be accessible and , insofar as possible – intelligible , a clarity , and system-wide decision . everyone should be governed by law , insulated from those ’s personal latitude in power , and legal disputes should be settled without prohibitive costs or inordinate delay . moreover , state powers should be exercised unconsciously , in good faith , and for the purposes to which they had been granted , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of legislation ensuring that the government does not outweigh the boundaries of its jurisdiction . there should be equality before law , combined with an adequate safeguard of fundamental human rights . the courts and other official adjudicative bodies should provide their due process .
in france , the far-right national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has restored it under marine le pen . it is the extreme right that has benefited the most from the centrists ’ failure . in finland , a center-right unknown true finn party has capitalized on resentment around the eurozone ’s bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s general election . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without her support , a minority liberal government would collapse . nor is the backlash confined to the eurozone ’s core members .
a fourth factor is most obviously german business interests . german firms make a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – that , together , amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . the eu is paying turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . on his own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner , compared to both exports and imports . here , however , the hungarian tail is wagging the german dog .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and a few of its main trade partners since the eu decided to include in its co2 emission-control scheme all flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental flights . in fact , both china and the united states are outraged . the ceos of the us aircraft manufacturer airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in . with the eu ’s population already growing , chinese airlines have delayed orders to acquire european aircraft . as a result , airlines will have to obtain the emissions permits in response to their flight ’ co2 emissions .
i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center on europe ’s periphery , free from european responsibilities but to participate fully in its opportunities . and , for the record so far , norway is a significant net contributor to the eu budget , with the price of its bargaining operation despite not being a member . when we in government looked closely at risks in london as a financial center from being out of europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage the us . but we were never in any doubt that being out of europe completely was a very different matter altogether . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated as well , but each has to be individually negotiated .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries , as well as the persistence of communicable , a maternal , newborn , and nutritional shortfalls in sub-saharan africa . likewise , it has emphasized the rapid pace of epidemiological transitions in middle-income countries and the persistence of communicable , a maternal , newborn , and nutritional shortfalls in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health if it were able to deliver a more level of in-depth data breakdowns . to help decision-makers make a better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and assessment ( which i head ) produces geospatial charts of disease burdens with a groundbreaking resolution level . estimates of local disease burdens will be crucial for fighting afflictions like ebola , controlling the increasing toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting the un ’s sustainable development goals concerning maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa .
a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise above 20 % , relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to exit the common currency , a road back to competitiveness would become easier for the southern countries , because the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem will remain as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . from this perspective , the crisis countries would not have been spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union involving a competitive core country . spain , for example , would still have to cut its gdp by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average . the only way it can avoid this would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
one way to bolster india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish the marine equivalent of the us territorial army , by training chosen fisherfolk to carry out search-and-rescue operations . such training , together with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishers and their expertise to braving turbulent seas , would make it a very effective reserve force , put in place when disaster strikes . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to prolonged reliance on fisheries . another issue that risks overlooked by focusing on urgent and immediate financial trade-offs is the coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas , causing severe economics ( not to mention its emotional ) hardship for the region ’s impoverished fisheries communities .
ramallah – the united states should stop pressing for a renewal of the palestinian-israeli peace process . ramallah , the united states should stop pressing for a renewal of the palestinian-israeli peace process . peace between the conflicting parties east the mediterranean region and the west of the jordan river can and achieve peace through negotiations . but if either side is more interested in a process than in its need for peace , something must go wrong . doing so may be the best path to peace – a paradox that reflected an overwhelming gap between the peace process and achieving genuine peace .
madrid – the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) have created a new organizational structure for the eu , laying the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic power . the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project for peace , defensiveness , the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historic divisions , now calls for a redefinition of the european project . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s roster at the beginning of 2007 , are unambiguous : the era of reflexive , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , has ended . the nice treaty ( in 2000 ) came about as a rather poor compromise .
whenever i enter moscow , i ’ve been struck by their new shops and their apartment buildings . but another crucial aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . part of the explanation for this has increased official control , part of the decline in public attention , and a part is that russia ’s trouble nowadays simply looks less urgent . after russia ’s government seized power over independent broadcasters , the ntv and mv6 , russia ’s media became vastly duller . the latest fad is for officials to reach out to libel newspapers demanding more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark . but it is not wrong to ask what should scandinavian welfare economies be such a successful development as well as to what americans can learn from them . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people a job that pays a decent enough wage in order to sustain a healthy , happy lives . one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends on large numbers of the population that does productive work in higher-value jobs . according to oecd oecd country rankings , the top seven of the countries worldwide have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now , reporter timothy j. p. ’s novel book the great divergence : america ’s rising inequality crisis , and what we might do about it , and milton , and rose director friedman ’s classic free to choose : a personal statement . their case for small-government libertarianism rested largely on such claims , and was now mostly crumbled because the world turned out to have disagreed with them about the way it was working . berkeley , on my desk right now , reports that macroeconomic distress is caused by a government rather than an unstable private market , or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to deliver economic stability is straightforward and easy to achieve . considering them jointly , my overwhelming thought is that the friedmans would find their task of justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism far more difficult today than they did in 1979 . back then , the wright made three powerful factual claims about how the world works – claims that seemed true or at least arguably true at the time , but that now appears pretty clearly false .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa is losing more than $ 50 billion each year from illicit financial outflows . for its part , the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter micro-avoidance methods such as basic erosion and profit shifting . now , the g20 should follow through on that commitment , and establish a clear timeframe for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending as the 2017 sdg 4 and the oecd ’s prohibition of exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax avoidance and to unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the “ panama papers ” ) that the panama papers used to pump their money out of africa . the g20 ’s members should strengthen fiscal disclosure requirements , prevent shell corporations , intensify financial-reform efforts , and establish public registries of corporate ownership .
though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention to conduct a cross-border ecological impact assessment ( not to mention missing any opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continued the reactor ’s operations ) , none of this analytical is likely to take place . most immediately , units two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . most immediately , units two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit to a 20-year lifetime extension will be done . though this venes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention to undertake some cross-border environmental assessments ( not to mention missing any opportunity to consider the potential alternatives to continue the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analyses are expected to take place . three of ukraine ’s nuclear power units currently operate beyond their designs lifetime , with nine others set to reach the end of their intended lifetime within the next five years .
at the business level , more than 700 firms with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion generated far-reaching climate commitments , according to the us mean a business coalition . and 289 investors , holding almost $ 30 trillion in assets , signed on to the climate 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and foster climate-related financial disclosures . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year . and oslo has crafted the climate budget to guide financial decision-making . curitiba , brazil , has established a new urban food-production model .
but this was no recipe for restoring the country ’s stability and growth . in order to succeed in restoring a strong growth path , east asia must deliver more justice than individual human-rights abuses . as proponents of asian values have argued , it is imperative that all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – be strengthened . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order .
by contrast , the virtuous chinese save a large share of their incomes castigated western economists for their failure to comprehend that their duty to mankind was to digest . the keynesian uncertainty about the shift to a runaway economy was the re-definition of uncertainty as risk . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a moral issue , hedging against risk was a purely technical question . by the same token , a virtuous chinese who saves a large share of their incomes castigated western economists for their failure to understand that their duty to humanity was to spend . the principal uncertainty about life – a destination for one ’s immortal soul – nudges one on his own to morals .
as a result , italy – and the european union as a whole – is positioning themselves toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority forced another election the following month . but , in many ways , this attitude is a inefficient and volatile global economy . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right labour party , bersani will rely on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . the crisis in cyprus – which risks causing the country ’s banking system to disintegrate and forcing cyprus out of the eurozone – could make the situation even harder to manage .
but , just a few years ago , america ’s auto industry pushed for a requirement in a trade deal that would have afforded it a near-market share of america ’s exports to south korea . in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with foreign automobiles , micro , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . trump probably hopes to spawn these tools further . if trump wants to prevent us manufacturing from moving overseas and encouraging us investment from abroad , the us may soon see us companies squeezed into agreeing “ on voluntary ” deals to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements . some of the preconditions that were imposed then have been prohibited by the world trade organization .
the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , america has some world-beating responsibility to get its house in order . according to imf data , america accounted for astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . america ’s population today amounts to just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . and us per capita us emissions are higher than they were in any other large country , far less than they did in any other large country . in short , it is america , where per capita us emissions have always been several times higher than the world average that owes global climate justice rather than another route around .
that rise was preceded by the loss of almost a third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market opened on the monday that followed the largest two-day tipping point since 2008 . since then , china ’s stock market has become the global laggard – that is , until last year , the world ’s best performing for the better , rising by more than 150 % . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or plummet by double digits without triggering a wider economic crash – at least so far . for example , china ’s gdp growth has been persistently unaffected ( indeed , the us economy grew at almost 10 % in real terms ) when the stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 , or for that matter when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically after the 2008 financial crisis ) .
as a result , the conversation has once again turned on macron . i have sought to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( together with the same time ) that supposedly heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead bear one of the more visible traces of his doctrinal closeness to the french philosopher paul ricœur ( there ) . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice at the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and shuttle down before the insolvable and terrifying mystique of the dual nature of the world , physical and spiritual , mortal and resurrected , of the tormented body of christ . nonetheless , very soon we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , there is a case to be found in that horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates traveling soaring in charlottesville , virginia , in august to crack down on some black and jewish heads .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual fabric of their approach is brewing . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century americans have invented political populism , with its anti-elitist attitude and inflammatory rhetoric . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation to rise , and eventually suffered currency crises . yet there can be no disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism .
what is remarkable is that it has lasted such a long time . it has expressed an understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , because , as he put it , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , iran , russia , and israel . political contexts matter , israelis will argue . israel is bound to fight this emerging new american doctrine , which honors it , with iran , or , indeed , even india and pakistan , on this matter . nevertheless , it has been a recent declaration to congress by secretary of defense robert gates that has been particularly shocking on the israelis .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) proclaimed opposition leader alassane ouattara ’s winner in the country ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . significantly , the united states , the european union , canada , and united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , won 45.9 % . one day after the results were announced , the country ’s constitutional council , headed by gbagbo ’s close ally paul yao n’dre , annulled the results of seven of the north ’s departments , declaring gbagbo ’s winner in the election with 51 % of the vote .
since the riots last spring , china ’s government has undertaken a number of proactive measures , even adopting the “ serf liberty day , ” ” ” ” ” ” to defend its record in tibet of more than 50 years , while continuing to speak with the dalai lama ’s hold on representatives . in sharp contrast to the last year , when the rush home for lunar new year ’s celebration was hamstrung by freighted storms , millions of migrant laborers have already returned to their rural homes . many will stay there because the worldwide economic downturn has hit china hard , costing them their jobs . fast forward is not only the spring anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile by the dalai lama and his supporters . littered with their host of extreme anniversaries , 2009 might prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than it was in 2008 .
dealing with deficits has required difficult choices , too – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state-run retirement age in order to control public-sector salaries . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself wealthier by introducing checks to itself . a government living within its means is an indispensable condition of ensuring that the economy can live within our means , and that is precisely what i am committed to delivering it . success also requires taking bold steps to tear trade barriers and unlock the economy toward investment from a fast-growing country like china and india . a government that lives within its means is an indispensable condition of ensuring that we can live within our means , and that is precisely what i am committed to delivering .
building the industrialized and modern service industries is critical for successful diversification . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the key to growth in industrialized countries , what matters for developing countries is reforming their production and export structures , especially by shifting resources toward higher-productivity activities . indeed , the recent credit boom in some parts of the developing world shows exactly that this . the key to achieving it is the capacity to diversify domestic production , through generating new activities , amplifying intra-country economic linkages , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as demonstrated by the sad experience of much of the developing countries in recent decades .
the oxford english dictionary gives it as the earliest reference to its current usage an academic article in 1972 . the word was used earlier , but in a rather different sense . the oed etymology ignores the non-english ancestry of the term that can be discovered in continental european student radicalism . it was the diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy areas ( such as , for example , the negotiating simultaneously on financial and security matters ) . today , few know where the concept that globalization has originated .
the best “ major consequences ” of which the un security council warned should iraq fail to live up to its commitments would be an even firmer effort to destroy its illicit weapons through the regime ’s relentless inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : its inspectors , not exxon . the credible threat of war was vital to achieving that extraordinary feat . but , precisely because it is so extraordinary as to see how implementing those threats by launching a war may make any sense at all . without its determination , backed up by a highly credible show of us military force and skillful diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs would not be vulnerable to scrutiny at a more intense scale than that applied to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . if , over the course of the inspections iraq was exposed as has lied and cheated that would be an acknowledgement of the effectiveness of the inspections , scarcely a justification for military reprisals .
of course , the historical analogies are imperfect , of course . clearly , cyber technology is very different from nuclear technologies , mainly because non-governmental actors can exploit it for far more readily . while their stated vision of an “ information-security ” ” option could legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and are thus intolerable to democratic governments , it may be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting any intrusions would be impossible , but one could start with cybercrime and cyber-terrorism , for example . major states would have an interest in limiting the damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and control .
most of the debt is owed within the state system , for example by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , funding operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extend new loans to service the old debt . to be sure , that would produce squandered investments . indeed , with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , and with a planning system unable to impose alternative efficiencies , china is already awash in an apartment building blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with huge overcapacity in heavy industry . yet , as some chinese policymakers respond , any growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america have created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they have spurred economic transformation .
the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure , and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians as the most possible from the country ’s resources , and to rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining treaties in order to make that happen . moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that using natural resources could easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the lot . and improving transparency is key to this process , which is why the government ’s strong endorsement of press freedom is so crucial . as president hage geingob told the us national security council , it frequently says is that it does n’t like .
the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may prove to be open to such an agenda . anastasiades , the eu ’s pro-european dimokratikratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and that will naturally come out as its top priority . admittedly , it could expand this kind of cooperation to include other neighbors around the levant . naturally , much will depend on how it reaches politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . nonetheless , a cautious gaze beyond the current turbulence – and in anastasiades ’s history – is providing the grounds for optimism .
for reasons that are now obscure are the unwritten rule that commission presidents need to be drawn from the ranks of past or current prime ministers . the commission 's own internal culture of cautiousness and red tape is a constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to speak about . but the bottom line is that , at a time when everybody has been asking , “ “ what is europe done ” , the commission 's ’s responses have seemed deficient . it is not a structure that is conducive to political coups de theâter , with most of the commission ’s work being the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . yet eu heads are challenged to be europe ’s dynamic public face .
britain has chosen to leave the eu because it has outsized views on itself . but it is far from clear that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it is on a path to leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union . as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it . soon , however , it will have to follow a small-country model , like that of switzerland or norway . for its part , independence would enable scotland to develop policies that are more aligned with other successful small economies – not least by sustaining eu membership .
second , with china such an influential driver of world demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the prospects for the world ’s fifth-largest economy are disproportionately affected by projections of global corporate income . and , as china ’s excessive household-loan growth and the shadow-banking system draw increased attention , a growing number of firms are becoming anxious . third , while companies are recognizing that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s globalized economy , they are also humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many companies , less convinced that the “ normal ” of innovations are yield large payouts , end up investing less overall than they did in the past . today ’s successful innovations are much less about financing and much more about finding the “ killer app . ”
stockholm – it has been one more year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . last year ’s attempted coup was nothing if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 combatants had bombed the turkish parliament , leaving 249 people losing their lives . but mohamed schists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters , killing the coup ’s fate . had the coup not been stymied in the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have fallen into a ruinous and violent civil war , the consequences extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tensions are mounting throughout asia over north korea ’s missile program . the question for the world now , then , is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but rather what happens an afterward . the united states , japan , and south korea publicly denounce the launch as the “ provocative act ” and the violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 five , five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons test . but , rather than a hot rhetoric , what is needed now is its cool-headed assessment of the military ’s implications of a missile launch . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s administration this time notified of international agencies in advance of its launch of a “ satellite ” on july 4 , on july 8 .
and it just held the first-ever round of possible presidential elections that meets europe ’s high standards of liberty and fairness . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasion . it has been more than a decade since the eu initiated its eastern partnership , which established a more reliable framework for cooperation in the bloc with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , sierra leone , turkey , and ukraine . that initiative , it is worth recalling , was partly a response to the russian-georgian invasion ten years earlier , when the kremlin attempted to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . still , the eu merits some of its credit for this outcome .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and for the eu as a whole . with no renewed vision of europe and effective approach to crisis resolution , the eu ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain strength and compromise the entire project of peaceful integration on the basis of the rule of law . it will be followed either by a sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or by a cataclysm that drive the eu toward its core and delivered catastrophe with the uk . but , however the british decide , what europe needs is europe ’s many crises . the eu ’s policy of stemming baby steps is no longer tenable .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core business of managing crises . whereas the nefarious case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems to be in doubt , the ensuing world press focuses on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy , with its unlimited utility accounts , openly dominated by men with little sense of restraint . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full with three significant challenges . fortunately , much of the background seems to be more prosaic . the first , and arguably easiest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image .
the build-up of the monetary base is only transitory ; when bond issuance is redeemed , it reverts to its initial level . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free loans to the government ; it is the gift . this eventual need to shrink the monetary base is an implicit claim on central-bank assets ; thus , an increase is rightly seen as a liability for its balance sheet . because holders of the stimulative monetary base have no say in the central bank , the increase in the monetary base should be viewed not as an liability but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . under a carbon-financed fiscal stimulus , however , the central bank never needs to reverse the increase in the monetary base .
her party accused serra of orchestrating an attack , and , in revenge , her party -- its liberal front -- threw its support behind ciro gomes . with sarney shut down , lula reigned supreme in the polls by reaching 43 % in mid-may . gomes used the tv time available to his three-party labor alliance ( party ) in late june to huge effect , but most of the credit his rise in the opinion polls to the superb rating of his second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar recovering from breast cancer . brazil 's severe summer market jitters , during which the country 's state risk index abruptly topped nigeria and brief credits for international trade dried up , began to turn on the face at the polls . then , in early july , disparities skyrocketed to 28 % , within a striking distance lula , who declined to 33 % .
claremont , california – although the rapid escalation of mass violence in hong kong appears terrifying enough , things may well get far worse . the “ communiqué ” recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on the former british colony at all costs . he should be preparing to rattle the formidable bill . and that shift would take place at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria , as well as the thorny issue of western sahara , hampered integration in the maghreb , the absolute need to unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has been a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increase its share of renewables to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious goals . in part , these shortcomings reflect enduring governance vulnerabilities , notwithstanding important political reforms in 2011 , notably constitutional changes that have shifted powers from monarch to parliament , and legislative reform like aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . it has been a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including responsible for religious education , far beyond their own borders .
after all , there is little reason to believe that either the fiscal compact , or the sgp ’s proposed “ debt brakes ” , will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be resolved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions , taken in response to a misunderstanding of america ’s system , might be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s own . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out the state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have law , or their constitutional provisions that restrict deficit spending . to use eurobonds as the dst mechanism to eliminate a large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term goal of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the order of 60 % – a of-gdp margin where countries will have the most trouble resisting the impulse . for their part , rules need a plausible enforcement mechanism .
india , for example , abides by a more stricter definition of what represents an invention that avoids the “ evergreening ” : its entire patent process by taking out secondary patents for marginal improvements to its original drug . but , because the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual-property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all the world trade organization member states were forced to recognize one another ’s ’s ’s pharmaceutical patents . for indian drug makers , manufactures generic versions of patented drugs would require license , and such licenses are rarely , if ever , granted . nonetheless , following amendments to india ’s payments act , india still has some safeguards to stave off the type of excesses that major pharmaceutical companies routinely extract in the us and europe . according to section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ merely discovery ” of a new form of … assets , or … use for a familiar feature , or the sheer application of a well-known process ” is either unqualified to a patent unless it “ results ” in a new product , or employs at least one new reactant .
but bolsonaro is reluctant to keep the amazon chaste ; he merely wants to be among those exploiting that future . his promotion of the rainforests ’ development and attacks on environmental regulation has led , for example , to the prevalence of agribusiness , particularly cattle ablaze and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s national space research institute , deforestation of brazil ’s partition of the amazon increased more than 88 % in june , up from an estimated 88 % year on year . with characteristic misogyny , he recently proclaimed that “ brazil is like a virgin that each foreign pervert wants each other to be carried out .
kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of any kind to remain in power . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off the table , whereas north korea , which , unlike iran , withdrew from the un non-proliferation treaty , already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the american-made mainland . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . there are , of course , notable differences between north korea and iran . trump may have begun to recognize that increasing us pressure on north korea does not exclude his country from negotiating with kim .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a third argument against setting aside anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but that reflects a profound misunderstanding of the matter at hand . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – purchases and sales of foreign currency – is involved in the currency . conventional monetary policy operates by altering the short-term interest rate , comprising the central bank purchases and selling long-term government debt .
after all , it would not be amusing when a charity devoted to famine relief has celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case will be paramount because this is the only real reason that a charity must exist . but a joke would not work if there were n’t at the same time another widespread assumption that scientific expertise has the value that scientific expertise is independent of any particular type of practice . thus , it is entertained to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether about experimental physics , math , or in cosmology , is pointless . so , while its potential usefulness is the reason that governments devote so much money to academic research , people actually expect more from science than they do . on this view , the life of science also has a quite different , higher-level aim : to understand the natural world .
the trouble with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it sadbit women with far too much responsibility while giving them too little power – is not lost on everyone . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration requested $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . nonetheless , abortion politics had intervened , as republican legislators , to lead congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made financing conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the us position did not help either . last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization highlighted the need to place human rights at the heart of the response to the zika outbreak .
it would overturn the pattern by which europe relies on repressive regimes to provide it with oil and gas , and guard its borders against migrants . such an approach needs to communicate both to the european public and those of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . if they become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs might end up worrying so much about official corruption . at a long last , these countries would leverage their demographic wealth to meet their development needs . and launching european borrowing would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home .
edmund phelps of columbia university argues that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism , ” which he defines as the combination of entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . to be sure , what is advantageous today may prove to be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will face severe difficulties today when their demographic pyramids towards the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but , in general , this is not what dose-tinted their economies are now . both spirit and what is needed are necessary financial institutions to enable “ creative destruction ” – that is , compel joseph schumpeter to argue that sixty years are the engine of capitalist prosperity – to burst out . but is this really an exact description of a slow-growing country ?
lula ignacia da silva and his team , managing opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is prepared to reject traditional governments . lula and his party go so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policy that capital has already started fleeing -- despite the fact that the election is months ahead . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . institutions are torn down , property-rights disputes are being called into question , and a randomized , ever more corrupt redistribution effort is under way . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next .
few in the rich world would shift to renewables without heavy subsidies , and no one would cut back their links to the most fossil-fuel-powered grid , which holds steady power on cloudy days and at night ( another form of subsidies ) . yet western activists apparently believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with an inadequate and erratic electricity supply . in its recent africa energy outlook , the ntp estimates that africa ’s energy supply will rise by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population nearly doubling , less energy per person will become affordable . by 2040 , at the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce more than 14kwh per person annually , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led permanently lit . at the same time , the iea estimates that renewables will still cost more , at average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro – even with a carbon tax .
new york – much talk about the meltdown in china ’s housing market erupted in 2011 and early 2012 , as well as the chain-reaction of defaults in underground credit networks and local-government financing platforms . in 2013 , talk to the dangers of a resurgent us housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow-banking system , comprising primarily wealth-management firms and convinced corporate debt . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which returns from the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools are based – is weak and falling . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which returns to the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools – appears to be widespread ? in 2011 and early 2012 , much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market followed a chain-reaction of defaults in underground credit networks and local-government financing platforms .
by any reckoning , this is an important industry that should not be suffering from over-regulation . european industries are beset by similar problems . refining and petrochemical industries supplies the eu with a large share of its fuel and are also major sources of tax revenues . but , whereas industry is facing the threat of inflated gas prices from the rest of the world , its concerns closer to home are those of the eu and its domestic energy regulatory regime . downstream industries , together with the distribution of fuels , contribute an overall total of about € 240 billion annually to us treasuries .
the answer appears to be that its centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has been pushing back against trump . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values protecting minorities , and it has welcomed the plight of the poor and downtrodden . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues such as immigration are threatening to create the kind of systemic problems that will have survived long after trump has returned to the living standards of golf courses and bankruptcies . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for sending politely to the uk along the way that they are able to focus their attention on threats to their own long-term cohesion and fundamental values . still , draining the poison of europe will require much more than scolding america and praying for trump ’s early departure .
moreover , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected by the free-market fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the current political mood certainly appears to reflect this . but recognizing the fallibility may actually be empowering , for it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . as long as the world remains too complex and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve their social goals , new systems of checks and balances must be designed in a way that advances political decision-making and vice versa . if the world is to be shaped by ambiguity and unpredictability , pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – must change .
it simply is not feasible for highly leveraged governments to grow the way out of debt . at the same time , governments need to work to reduce the existing debt and deficient global demand that it contributes . similarly , it would be challenging – but not impossible – to reduce incentives , created by almost every country ’s fiscal regimes , for corporate leverage . nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to undertake the type of large fiscal adjustment of 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case , that citizens would likely resist them , as the greeks did . a more effective approach would employ a wider range of tools , including debt restructurings .
third , inbound pay and incentive structures are bad for the business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . but silicon valley ’s ceos are not robin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs may tell their investors that they are willing to change the world , but many are intoxicating the notion that the world will be better when they sell their business to the highest bidder . and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to some services .
moreover , he never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or on expressing his dismay at the rising number of niqabs and hijabs and hijabs now see on london city ’s a-prevention – which prevents men , who notes , from being interviewed . one might say that no less could be expected from a labour leader with a bright future within churchill ’s own country . for europe , this certainly needs to be an indispensable principle . but one must still follow through , one must be admitted that khan did not yielded any results in such matters as the facile communitarianism common to the remainder of the channel . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has won him a fatwa for apostasy of the dour army of the jbsp .
perhaps the time to assess the open banking sector ’s financial-stability risks came during the consultation period , before the directive came into effect . in europe , regulatory changes like the second-payments services directive ( psd2 ) were crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s regarding financial-sector conduct authority have some time ran regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them structure themselves to comply with the standards . aggregators may then present a customer with an integrated view of their finances and offer a add-on service . perhaps the time to assess the open banking system ’s financial-stability risks came during the consultation period , before the directive came into force . even now , the list of fsb contributors shows that the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america have not been involved .
some ideas do worse than wrong : these are castrating , for they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues – say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that might lie elsewhere . consider finland , a nordic country endowed with many trees for its small population . a classical economist would argue that because of this , the country should export the timber that finland did . yet all the wood-related goods comprise barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . a traditional development economist , on the other hand , would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by turning the timber into paper or furniture – something that finland also does .
this more profound transformation , in contrast to many policymakers ’ low-hanging fruit eyed today , offers the only path to climate security ( that is , remaining well below 2ºc threshold ) . we need to reach out to zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient cars , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . by pursuing coal toward gas or more efficiently gas-burning vehicles , we run the risk of hitching ourselves into a high-carbon trap . we need to put towards around $ 50 / kilowatt-hour by 2050 to around 500 grams a kilowatt-hour .
rather than becoming agents of change , they often impede change . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with popular support , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . to succeed , conglomerates need support from government and acceptance of society . but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even merited ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow farther away from domestic markets , industries where competition will spur a discipline that they lack , owing to dominicans of local markets . ( indeed , the great recession in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols ’ stifling of innovation by locking up upstarts competitors from challenging them . )
what is iran does in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? at the same time , how will it define its interests in those countries ? working groups might be formed to try to form a common narrative . negotiation would also need to obscure contemporary issues , including a tour d’horizon of current hotspots . does this really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ?
domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and imperatives of gdp growth , is being forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . though china will be the most important market on the future , this will prove decisive in determining not only the us that it is producing and consuming , but how . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in hong kong , rather than the west . otherwise , it would allow china to rapidly to hit its “ “ growth ” limits , ” ” ” with its catastrophic ecological and political implications as a result . consider the transition from a traditional automobile to an electric transportation technology .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must convey the clear intention of bringing sovereign interest rates down to sustainable levels , which amounts to at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain at 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on the basis that spain had been borrowing at almost similar rates in the 1990 ’s . but that declaration , curiously , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thus puzzling real and nominal rates – and more rapid gdp growth . a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and could even be counterproductive , because private investors might well demand even a higher rate , because a rising ecb share would be perceived as senior , augmenting their risk . for the countries pursuing agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bring down interest rates to levels compatible with its projected inflation and growth rate , and announcing how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demanding shocks , though friedman ’s widespread argument , that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion remains highly influential . inflation targeting was best known as a rule that instructed central banks to fix – and attempt their best way to agence – the target range for the annual consumer-price change index ( cpi ) . there were also proponents of a flexible inflation-targeting targeting , who held that it was okay to put some weight on actual gdp growth in the short run , so long as the obvious longer-term goal for keeping cpi inflation low was apparent . but some also felt that , having stretched too far , it would lose its relevance . close cousins incorporated into the price-level level instead of the country ’s inflation rate and targeting of headline inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) .
in the us , for example , slashing labor costs has sharply decreased the share of labor ’s income in gdp . the result is that it does not generate sufficient final demand for free markets . firms in the advanced economies are cutting jobs today , owing to deficient final demand , resulting in excess capacity and uncertain prospects for future demand . but offshoring jobs weakens final demand further , as it reduces the concentration of labor income and increases inequality . because a firm ’s labor costs are another source of labor income and demand , what , individually , is rational for a single firm is destructive in its aggregate .
meanwhile , in the us , employment at amazonia has grown by 47 % over the last year , to more than 341,000 people . but , with amazon ’s jobs concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these jobs varies very differently from the extent of the replacement economy . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution of that type of workment . after all , whereas the taa targets individuals do not directly use foreign competition ; much of the competition facing local economies comes from abroad ; and many job losses do not come in industries directly affected by outsourcing rather than competition , but in the nearby economy . nor do import tariffs help those left behind by the us unemployed through blockbuster video , boundary books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , it can turn only to russia , as is the case of president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . yanukovych stands for the genuinely oligarchic state of the type that putin is ousted at home , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations . president putin ’s behavior is arguably best explained by his political dislike of democracy . for the first time , ukrainians have cast their little-known littoral brother complex towards a russians overboard . after this spectacular russia failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a real european-wide democracy .
of course , agricultural development can have profound economy-wide pitfalls , which must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity yields reduce the number of workers needed on farm workers , productivity-boosting employment strategies in other parts of the value chain , and managing migration to cities become even more vital . fortunately , africa ’s ’s ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , overwhelmingly uninterested in the hindu work of subsistence farming , are well suited to fill the higher-value-added jobs that are emerging in and out of the agricultural sector . another potential pitfall in agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive use of water and water pollution . with africa ’s rural population already mostly underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies .
for many of the agreement ’s critics , particularly those at the greenpeace movement , those compromises have made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” “ bottom-up ” deal . it almost certainly will not . but that overlooks the lima agreement ’s biggest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into just two kinds of countries , both developed and developing alike . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules that are imposed by the deal . such critics worry that it will make it harder to talk to countries to cut their emissions further when it becomes clear that their collective efforts are inadequate and may even allow some countries to use irregular accounting methods .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a success entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul ’s national university and the main backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping broad hints that he might become a presidential candidate . ahn ’s most revealing merits is his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest behavior . nevertheless , recent polls show a widespread share of voters mistrust both the incumbent governments and the ruling party . ahn has already become a lightning rod for every country ’s antipark and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting some young people as much as he works . her rejection of him on his own is probably the main reason that she continues to lead in various opinion polls .
dhaka – we humans do not just share the planet with a wide range of other species , including plants , animals , and even members of microbes ; we also rely on them for its very survival . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that to prevent human death and suffering , while making it available to food , water and schooling to all people is vitally important . the reality is that there simply are n’t enough resources to do everything . can we determine the economic value of the natural world to protect itself ? some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing it as an obvious imperative .
this shifting landscape is calling for bold action on several fronts . · , because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of disaster-risk downside risks materialize . and elsewhere in the region – the tiny pacific island states in particular – vulnerability to adverse impacts from climate change is on the rise . while the reaction will almost certainly need to be tailored to each country ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations could do anything to most countries :
for example , they are generally united in their frustrations with – but not in their proposed response to – what the dollar ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s status as the world ’s main reserve currency . it wishes to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – a position that places it at odds with india . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship each brics country is with the united states . if the brics countries are to be summarized as a pressure group in international relations , they will have to agree on what they believe to be the attainable political and economic goals . above all , the brics ’ concept represents its members ’ desire to make the global order a more plural .
and , third , the post-nietzscheans ” happened to be the “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . i thereafter , an almost infinite amount of speech is established free of a digital democracy . by historicism then becomes a mob , a free-for-all where everyone shows up arming with his or her personal opinions , convictions , and the truth . i thereafter , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free from a digital one . by historicism historicism ( michel foucault ) , introducing truth “ under quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating a mark from its referent ( louis althusser ) and miring the apparent in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it to borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , or to tying it to borromean knots ( jacques lacan lacan ) , ideas , and irreversible aspects .
solna , sweden – an elite of sports and sufferers . but the damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching , state-sponsored doping program , released soon before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of the public consciousness . we should seize this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to bring an end to this deeply unhealthy practice , saving elite sports . reaching the elite level in sports requires a tremendous amount of hard work , dedication and focus . by definition , few succeed , but those who do may enjoy large personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) may soon become a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqia/syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east , or even end the syrian tragedy . rather , it will probably open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history , one no less dangerous than earlier chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i. instead , it remains stuck somewhere in between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries . continued this violent pattern appears almost certain to result from the fact that the region remains incapable of resolving internal conflicts militarily or establishing anything like a resilient framework for peace .
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculation ruling out greater investment . that seems clearly wrong : multiple expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off , unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities of disruptive events . that leads to a second and more plausible explanation , which is both psychological and behavioral in character . even a quick response becomes more effective when key networks and systems – especially the power grids – are resilient . why are we inclined to underinvest in our economies ’ resilience ’ key systems ?
right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of china raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to 2.5 % , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively – its first rate increase since 2007 . in the west , worries about the impact on chinese growth have triggered an alarming financial-market sell-off . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and the people ’s central bank of china now indicates that it might start raising interest rates further . in brazil , meanwhile , annual interest rates remain at or near 8 % .
traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are dispersed and fiercely competitive . fewer and more deeply fragmented industries also lobby better . larger firms are more adept at pooling resources for research and development , which holds the key to china ’s aspirations to move up the value ladder . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been pressed to adjust perpetually to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in the export market . they have little to say over domestic and international regulations .
no question , then , would the country be better off with a more flexible exchange rate , which has ruled out one-way bets for engaging in speculators , and has behaved like economic shock absorber . that may have been true of china at once ; it is no longer true today . but the “ exit ” literature , on how to replace the currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate , makes it clear that the moment when china might have navigated that transition smoothly has passed . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of the irish tourist who asks for directions to dublin , and is telling , “ well on sir , if i were you , i would n’t start from there . ” countries can exit redenomination rates smoothly only when there is confidence in the economy , invigorating the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate just as much as weakening .
the us senate bill ’s provision on derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such constraints , has apparently lined up quite clearly on the side of the big banks . a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( intended to force nominally government-insured banks back to their core lending mission ) may work . the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives contracts , but merely to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized to taxpayers ( recall a $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) that is not a natural or inevitable by-product of lending . but america ’s government would be foregoing to abandon things as they are . there are many ways to curbing the large banks ’ excesses .
if the aids arrives , egypt could begin to address some of its financing problems , but the long-term strategy is still in need of a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy is facing continuing risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , and populist policies . if finalized , a imf program could trigger further aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . sadly , the latest political cycle involving the democracy-promotion activities of american ngos has cooled bilateral relations and endangered the $ 1.3 trillion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to integrate the private sector in revitalizing the country ’s economy .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and frequented by the advent of free food ) , or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , closeness matters . interestingly , i ’ve heard that point at the wpp stream “ unconference ” in toronto , thailand , where a few hundred people have flowed through thousands of miles to meet to face sharing ideas and strengthening working relationships . interestingly , i have heard that point at the wpp stream “ unconference ” in santiago , thailand , where a few hundred people have flowed through thousands of miles to meet to face shared ideas and challenge their sharing of ideas and strengthening working relationships . of course , those who favor work at home cite not only the costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – overly profound culture , perhaps – and a steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their labor , rather than enhancing it . of course , those in favor of work at home cite not only the costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – that overly profound culture , perhaps , and a steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work , rather than enhancing it .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not nurture a war of its own . after all , iran and the us have already had at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world .
at the same time , global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth usage has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation around the world . the quality of talent , infrastructure , power costs , and velocity to the market is assumed to be greater weight in such decisions . but , on its own , globalization itself is not on its way to decline . if the merchandise trade of goods really peaked in proportion to global gdp , this will prove harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to ship goods across long distances .
in comparison with the standard post-world war ii practice , china is relying more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on multilateral negotiating rounds . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , “ china is committed to growing an open global economy . ” xi and his china-centric circles seem to have no intention of dismantling the global trading system . but , elsewhere , globalization with chinese characteristics will be different from what we know it . in 2002 , china signed the un framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
part of singh ’s ’s ’s ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher rates of diesel , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits of using foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . all politicians in democracies are thinking in the short run ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the coming elections . within singh , the pressure will mount within singh ’s congress party to match his economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . with his 20-year track record of accomplishment to show up publicly , singh has a much better case than most of those to be trusted by voters when he says he acts in his own long-term interests . the congress can rightfully take on the most far-reaching such agenda , the mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family every year of paid jobs .
banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements and to rebuild their balance sheets to their financial health , which implies using the ecb ’s cash in ways that permit it to meet that target most effectively . the alternative is one that has been urged on both sarkozy and the banque de france : by buying european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . so , for example , when they use the money to continue funding the private sector , they ensure that loans go to creditworthy buyers . this means that , like the loans provided by the italian and spanish banks over the past several months , most of the new cash will be loaned locally to safe households and large established firms . this will allow the banking markets to continue functioning but is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require .
turkey has an important role to play in its region and the world – one that is undermined by its continuing denial of the armenian genocide . its resentful approach to the genocidal struggle is inconsistent with its efforts to cultivate a reputation as an honest , trustworthy partner . doing so would improve its standing in europe and beyond . but symbolic measures , while important , are not enough to bring about genuine progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to make sure that its rule of law and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all of its citizens .
yet except for costa rica ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after the ida-ireland island , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . many in both abroad and domestic investment , despite the failures of such institutional arrangements in the past , are encouraging . for that reason , fdi has to be encouraged separately from domestic investment and exports . they want to talk to private-sector professionals who understand the technological and financing needs of their firms or sectors . moreover , foreign investors are reluctant to cope with diplomats or public employees .
with the paris climate agreement one year old , reshaping global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . companies with a huge fossil-fuel book , like coal , will soon face severe uncertainties related to stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessments accordingly . phasing out coal during times of prolonged over-production might even do . with the paris climate agreement per year , transforming global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . large mining firms can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil-fuel consumption to other materials such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , precious earth elements , and lithium as much to meet the sdgs will be needed in order to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication .
but a observable diffraction pattern -- the intensive-individual reflections -- represents only about half the data needed to sever the structure of diffracting object . in mathematical terms , it delivers the frentude , but not the phases -- that is , the stage in an oscillatory motion , without which the atomic positions can not be fixed . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as an undergraduate student . the following year , it was awarded the ancient hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented dna .
the endgame to determining the last shape of the european union is underway . it began with the publication by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of a design for the first sixteen “ treaty to design ” of the “ treaty to design ” of a european constitution . the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d'estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , submitted last november and its conclusions reached by the convention ’s working groups . the essential word here is most of them . such fidelity has not kept at bay for economics .
in pakistan , for example , the 2008 infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , and firms are willing to pay more to make entrepreneurship . similarly , while every company need investment data and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable , and are often skewed toward their political agendas . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of the firms experience electrical outages , competing them above 15 % of their annual sale – on average . fueled by population growth and urbanization , demand is eroding the supply of demand . in nigeria , for example , the 2008 census test delayed another nine years and beset the problems when it finally began .
the bbc ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . today , russia has fewer press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent . nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly front in the country , novye kolesa , . each of these outlets was distinguished by its coverage of sensitive stories – from the conflicts in ukraine to the high-level level of official corruption .
following the successful paris climate agreement more than two years ago , expectations are high . earlier this month , thousands gathered for the united nations climate change conference in bonn , germany to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the eu ’s carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together some 30 governments , and more than 180 companies and their strategic associates , to put a value on carbon dioxide emissions . the idea is straightforward : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s objective of limiting the rise in global temperature to well below 2 ˚celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels – we must dramatically cut our emissions .
at that point , the one thing still stands between the eurozone and a financial meltdown will be the ecb , which could purchase us government bonds and fund bank runs . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to immense credit risks . but it could in principle step in , if northern europe were to be permitted . as soon as greece continues , runs on bank deposits probably will follow in spain and italy . nothing can be done to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local banks to one in switzerland , norway or new york .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as elsewhere in the region , frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , that died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system allowed him to remain in power for 31 years and have used the civilian , rather than a criminal , courts to harry his adversaries . but , more important , lee also relied on elements of the democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage . yet the path on which both countries had embarked was not lee ’s path . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interests were allowed to dictate the country ’s main opposition leader , the key opposition leader , that no real democracy that embraces the rule of law would even contemplate leveling the basis of evidence that no genuinely independent tribunal would accept .
are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” like senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely called them “ ? ” now , however , trump is part of a wider phenomenon . trump ’s critics argue that he play on the basest instincts of disaffected voters denouncing outsiders ( particularly mexicans ) , the mistrust of bankers ( or anyone with a graduate level of education , for that matter ) , and still can not get over the choice of a president whose father was black . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s statement , is “ americanized ” in the comedian , ” america ’s id , ” or at least the id of an overwhelming number of predominantly white – predominantly small-town americans . now , however , trump is part of a wider phenomenon .
the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain in recession , and their gdps will continue shrinking . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are expected to grow . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s big economies , has had sky-rocked to 20 % , and still shows no sign of improvement . in europe , the picture is also mixed in .
malmö , “ everyone knows ” that , you should drink the pair of water glasses per day . after all , that is the boardrooms of many us health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . to be sure , drinking that much does n’t feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage counsel : just maybe you are being able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you construct your fluid intake gradually . indeed , we are often drink without being dafed , but that ’s how you ought to be : as the coffee gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know a lot but it knows when your body is thirsty . ” a healthy living today means performing bottled water , sipping at every turn and trying to drink our entire daily quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , facing an unprecedented risk of sanctions on their borrowing costs . firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , facing an unprecedented risk sanctions on their borrowing costs . and they face huge uncertainties as well . what kinds of power plants are about to be acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide , as in the past ?
weak mandates , insufficient funding , disemorganized structures , and the absence of a global governance system have weakened inter-governmental agencies ’ ability to interact with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , g20 leaders ’ meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape the system of migration of the international system , with a proactive protection of policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect for action is better this time , given the ongoing talks in europe , where the consequences of the ensuing migration crisis have felt deep . currently , an alphabet soup of aid and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . these include independent groups such as the international organization for refugees ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
by the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 computers in the world , and their alteration of power averaged 10,000 machine directions per second . the scale of the investment required to make what has been known as moore ’s law has grown exponentially , along with the density of transistors and airplane , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers that will bring the pace of improvement to a halt anytime soon . there is now more than 300 million computers in the world , with processing power averaging a number of hundred million instructions per second -- a four _ billion _ _ fold increase in raw , automated computational power -- at an average annual rate of more than 56 % ! there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth in the near term will continue for several decades . more than a generation ago , intel 's co _ founder gordon moore observed that improvements to the semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip every eighteen months .
these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in the developing world . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” and right now , we stand at the margin of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . but neither corporations nor governments can do so on its own . by targeting schools as health-care hubs and embedding students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . they need working together to enable us to produce the best possible outcome .
fortunately , it still has time , with many previous us presidents setting a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the state department to be launched “ substantive dialogue ” with the plo ’s leaders . likewise , at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework for peace . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated a string of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , he is obama ’s turn and should push for an united nations security council resolution that sets the new parameters for a future peace deal and substitutes un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , drew global attention as was the court-ordered assessment of his mental competency . similarly , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed . in this manner , america may well be exporting the stigma of mental-illness to the rest of the world . indeed , on the world ’s side , the australian newspapers cited giffords 160 times during the six rounds after firing , compared to just one mention during the previous 12 months . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in america , global media coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad .
for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , greater transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in the dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the world ’s poorest country . it is the key front in a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . ukraine is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential across a wide range of sectors . more important , successful reform in ukraine does make a positive trend toward russia .
at one extremes lies the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the euro is not a federalized state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter , after harming competitiveness through austerity and reform . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s south exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . but such a strategy carries grave risks that ultimately make it unworkable . realigning relative prices would require internal devaluation , which in turn could lead to social and political instability in its weaker countries .
the problem comes at a time when expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations and the central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove inadequate . economists disagree about when under what circumstances , and on what order governments should move beyond these initial two items on a checklist basis . should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and asset classes ? for example , should governments attempt to increase the monetary velocity by selling bonds in order to boost short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers , directly or indirectly , by channeling forward expenditures or widening the scope of government programs ?
it also includes the promise to leave the eu ’s single market and the customs union . no example can be found anywhere in the outside world where this will not be true . uk ministers have been largely responsible for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition – than for their competence , so far , have succeeded in securing an agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period will start . but not even that agreement is set in stone , because it will depend on whether negotiators first can agree on what to do about what to make about a border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland once the uk leaves the customs union . one can have a free-trade union with no border or outside a customs union with a border .
at the same time , the eurozone remains highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or instruments of macroeconomic stabilization . the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . given the eurozone ’s blinkered nature , that mandate probably still should be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that today ’s definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . there is a broader definition that the ecb pursues a symmetric inflation target of 2 % , within a 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer-run horizon .
when it comes to wishing for middle east peace – practically a new year ’s new year of ’s ­ – it takes time for one to be cautious . the israel-palestine conflict has sustained far too long for so long . when it comes to wishing for middle east peace – practically a new year of ’s ­ – the 2018 soccer world cup , one need look beyond caution . thus , many hopes have faded amid the bitter failures of so many negotiations . but the us has an appetite for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not delivering peace – may generate one of peace ’s preconditions : goodwill .
so the real issue is how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and a army that can be trusted to uphold the law in much the same way as to regulate it . in other areas , sharia law is introduced by force . in northern iraq , there are old scores settled and de-facto ethnic segregation in areas like irbil that have been traditionally diverse . notwithstanding the courageous of the number of iraqis who join either an army or a police officer , no one should wonder whether some have motives that are less than pure . a great deal of ground needs to be set up to begin to get anywhere close .
unemployment stands at around 10 % ( still far below half the spanish rate ) and annual gdp growth at around 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s ’s rate of growth is negative ) . the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw imply that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , though not in how that rumsfeld actually meant . to be sure , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland to a collapsing ones . but the moods in both countries , as well as their perceptions of europe and its roles in it , contrast starkly with it . given the overall european crisis , even poland ’s entire economy is no longer booming .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is no example of british black humor that i love . at present , the same can not be said of the uk . given the uk ’s ’s own economic , political , and military relevance , brexit will leave a gaping holes in the eu . but it will not tear apart europe , either . it does not have “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” ” “ yes , prime minister , ” ” ” ” ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it just boris , michele and nigel farage , and their disastrous political reality have shown .
but , for both parties , as well as outside powers , the events of 1948 and what followed , the occupation since 1967 of the plo of the plo of historic palestine represents a tragic failure . israel is most at fault for that failure , owing largely to its continued military occupation and illegal armistice . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians recall the nakbeh , or “ disaster ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but the condition of the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as well , if at different levels . despite enjoying lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories remains in direct contradiction to what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 termed “ the inadmissible withdrawal of land by force . ”
tantalizingly , they argue that doing this would create “ a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” though they do not explain how that market would be structured . moreover , recession insurance might run counter to fiscal policy , impose zero costs on the government , for if it encouraged confidence ; then the risk that they will be insured against is avoided . reducing uncertainty might augment or even superior , through fiscal stimulus programs , for that would address the root cause of an unwillingness to spend . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchases of recessions insurance , which might help loan markets function better , addressing the serious problem underlying the current crisis . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficiently to make it costless is only one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers .
first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be maintained in check , in order to ensure financial stability and maintain the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments as part of the rescue regime arranged by a supranational authorities – the european commission and the european central bank in collaboration with the european council – that in turn represent national governments . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to the flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . the greek saga demonstrates that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances rapidly enough to ward off major crises . the imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies .
china ’s downturn appears abrupt ; after all , its exports have been rising at double-digit rates every month this year , until may . in fact , the chinese economist ’s true condition has long obscured , but has now been subject to tighter regulation of activities like the renminbi ’s speculative trading masquerading as trade payments . as a result , the trade surplus has continued to shrink , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing fears of a chinese slowdown . in particular , china ’s “ two systems ” china has allowed its exports to bonded scarce reserves in hong kong to be used for the pad ’s trade statistics . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would have escalated in the face of a rout in freefall from ports .
as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine does today in latin america – they have the responsibility not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their firms , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s domestic investment priorities . for most equity investors , any project ’s value rests on a vast foundation of effective post-investment management . those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . thus , clear rights and duties must be carefully worked out in the early stages of investment , something that has been all but absent in the past . after all , m & a is only the first step on the long road .
the self-defense force ’s members display exemplary cooperation with america and the australian armed forces in the run-up to the 2011 great east japan ’s earthquake , and earned the deep appreciation and respect everywhere they have deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving . working alongside countries with which the us shares overall values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to the skies and maritime strife . to make proactive contributions to peace means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility , for convincing a security that promotes global prosperity and stability . and our embrace of us global responsibility extends to japan ’s self-defense forces .
another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears entirely from its eu agenda . how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible capacity for negotiation if talks can not start until , as israel insists , retreat on their minimal condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? for all that israel has downplays its very significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important agreement : the full normalization of relations by the entire arab world , in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league position be sustained by any peace talks that does so no longer exist ? israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion has warned , may or may not be the jewish state , the democratic state is an occupying itself historic israel ; but it may not be all three .
we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and genuine public scrutiny . yet , even with the favorable globalized market conditions , we have not managed to resolve the problem of reducing the poverty line , in which millions of russians still live . nor was it the crisis that gave rise to official corruption , affecting the officialdom at all levels , or causing russia to lose its democratic dynamic . i am convinced , therefore , that russia ’s hardship all comes down to policy . we russians have navigated along with the path of oil and gas , forbearance that those resources can not last forever .
in my judgment , there are only two viable options left . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to judge realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so stop lending to its banking system . but allowing greece to default , and still remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass enormous debts financed by the ecb , with no intention of repaying them . at the same time , fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would have been fatally undermined . yet , to force greece out of the eurozone – against its will – is not an option ; either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , with doubtless serious repercussions beyond the country ’s borders .
additional saving is possible through industrial approaches , such as the use of components – walls and flooring slabs – that have built offsite . this brings us to the second key lever of expanding affordable housing : a more blended and efficient construction industry . as it stands , the housing-building industry is extremely fragmented , hindering its ability to exploit economies of scale , with builders often relying largely on the same methods used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and levels of flooring , construction companies can cap costs and raise productivity , because workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public land if its owners fail to launch the development process within a year .
if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , with overtaking maternal deaths . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly demanded the hpv vaccine . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not simply an effective option , one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this makes sense : the estimated 266,000 women who die each year from cervical cancer an average of one every two minutes , on average every two minutes , at 85 % in the developing world . this is one reason why cancer specialists , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed the tangled web of illicit relationships among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . some high-level politicians and corporate managers have been convicted and imprisoned . the ensuing corruption scandals have already hit the highest levels of brazilian society . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . in the meantime , the drama has taken his toll on the brazilian economy .
this is raising long-term well all around , but heightens short-term inequalities and frictions . nevertheless , one remains to be seen whether the health-care pressures ultimately will trigger the current trend toward freer ( and freer ) free-market capitalism to roll back one another with an extremely large chunk of the economy ’s reverting to a larger socialist system . in fact , some societies may decide that they may be better to be red at best than dead . after all , i am not arguing for health-care capitalism , but warnings that support will become fragile , far greater than , say , globalization nowadays . most countries rely far too much on command and control , providing far too few incentives for their patients and providers to make efficient choices .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century united states physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james bond clerk maxwell ’s equations that depicting the fundamentals of us electricity and magnetism , had an autonomous existence and intelligence of their own ; that they are an wiser , even than their discoverers , that the us gets more out of it than originally put on them . not long after , albert einstein called the niels bohr ’s bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists . more recently , the late nobel laureate , richard feynman , describes his discoveries of the new laws of physics , has proclaimed , “ you can recognize truth , by its beauty , and simplicity . ” wishful thinking could never have produced work timber , pluto photos , pluto , or atomic bombs .
why , with apparently formulated alternatives at the desk , has the government chosen an predictably catastrophic course of action at such a high human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in the war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but anticipated that the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying , they provide information to another group about their willingness to withstand pain . let us last , then , begin with .
a world in which the u.s. has a proven track record of being honoring the trust it needs to play its role in the global economic hegemon is a much better world for the us than one in which there is little trust . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to a target of 4 % annual inflation – or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the united states would set in motion a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than seeing the 30 % euro appreciation that would follow from the ecb 's current us monetary policy , german exporters would shout for actions to keep america 's “ competitive devaluation " ; ” finally brought about moderate inflation in the north rather than the current grinding depression in the south . here is where the fed comes in . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and more secure world .
but ensuring that america can continue to take the lead in the twenty-first century will require a different sort of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in its persistent need for multilateral engagement , and that this has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , its embrace of multilateral leadership demands not only a clearer and bolder approach ; it also demonstrates a willingness to bear the costs of those rules , whether by establishing safe zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” ” civilians , or by taking concrete steps to reduce , and ultimately eliminate , nuclear arsenals . moreover , bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . and a team of 47 republican senators has written a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next us congress may not honor the nuclear deal they reach with obama .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have shattered their country . while they claim to be the redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they reject international assistance , force the venezuelans either to emigrate or to suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies . that requires a new administration of untrustworthy legitimacy , chose through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because losing power would probably mean long prison terms in the united states for a drug trade or the hague for crimes against humanity . the destruction of venezuela must be stopped urgently if its viability as the state and society are to reestablish .
indeed , over the last 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . and now , china ’s leaders are increasingly adopting that strategy inland , facilitating the critical investments in their physical and human capital . but the efficiency of such investments will depend on the sequence and rates of their implementation , and on how skillfully they adjust to each locality ’s distinct resources , need , as well as aspirations . so far , china has taken a “ “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ building it and come . ” four interrelated issues must be addressed .
it should be clear to kim now that his show of provocations does not benefiting his own country . his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , made deterioration in his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states blamely ; and during the recent crisis , all it has done have stalled to make a mocking , loudspeaker broadcasts . will kim react to that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or pragmatically by becoming a more flexible one ? that , in turn , is no easy question to make a response . if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost completely isolated internationally .
only french prime minister manuel valls , the son of spanish immigrants , has emphasized this question , alluded to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that developed in his own country . the need to tackle that outcome in france and throughout europe has become more important than ever , because rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged immigrants are aligned with the rise of far-right political parties . indeed , the only thing that has changed since may is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religiosity of some young people . europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking population , europeans badly need more immigration . the statistics are puzzling and at times even contradictory , but europe ’s current foreign-born population of a few 33 million may grow by another 100 million today by mid-century .
countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly handicap in science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals refer to the shots . as english-language empirical-research journals regrow their hold on channels that determine whether and not a scientist will have a successful careers , developing countries will need to invest massively in their own data-infrastructure to place domestic researchers in more competitive territory . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . nonenglish academic journals simply do not command the same level of attention in the sciences . as a result , the extent of research topics that many countries can make is limited and must struggle to retain their scientific talent must struggle .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address those concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past , or by his ties to the trump administration , but by delivering it .
there are basically two competing explanations of this . the first , larry summers ’ secular stagnation hypothesis has proposed it . its keynesian premise is that an equilibrium interest rate in which demand would balance the supply today is below its real interest rate . that seems more paradoxical than in most advanced economies , given that us interest rates are nearing zero . but what matters is the real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rate .
for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunity during the vital time of the league play . but the most significant lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are the ones that combine globalization ’s opportunities with a strong domestic foundation . for the us cup winner was neither cameroon nor cote d’ivoire nor any of the other african teams loaded with star players from the european leagues , but egypt , which fielded with only four players ( out of 23 ) playing out in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt beat at the final , featured only a single player from a domestic club and 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans who watched this game , but egypt played far better and deserves to win .
berlin – the world ’s challenge in solving north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s saber rattling is made uneasy by confronting an impoverished and effectively defeat country . while metternich sought to deter any potential french resurgence , he restored france ’s prewar frontiers . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing a new international order after napoleonic wars was that he did n’t push a defeated france into a corner . by contrast , as henry kissinger famously argued , victors in world war i could neither discourage a defeated germany nor provide it with incentives to embrace the treaty of versailles . on the contrary , it is under such circumstances that calm foresight has most to be desired .
america experienced a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , following a prolonged and severe one in 1981/1982 . but the us economy did indeed grow in the interim while only barely being able to consider distinct recessions . sometimes dating back to a recession is a wake-up call . many economists seem to believe that it was one serious episode , and that probably is the appropriate way to think about it in a broader , historical context . and , because they were detached by a transition from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential politically for the us to define two earlier recessions .
in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average rate of roughly seven per year . of the more than 67 cases in that decade , two were unilateral sanctions against the united states . during bill clinton ’s tenure , an estimated 40 % of the world ’s population or 2.3 billion were subjected to some form of american sanctions . currently , the bulk of america ’s sanctions are in place globally , with iran by far the largest state target . in fact , the large majority of us sanctions are enforced by large countries against small ones .
trump is apparently antagonizing china for no good reason . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves , and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s ’s value in the face of capital flight . worse , by announcing a us withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership – intended , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows under western rules – rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning an american policy that might have checked china ’s surging influence in asia . in the same tweet , justifying his phone call with tsai , trump repeated the false charges that china is devaluing its currency to gain its export advantages vis-à-vis america . his insight into international economics is either non-existent or ten-year .
what we do know is that there is no alternative great power , willing and able to step in , to assume what was america ’s role in it . india is preoccupied with the daunting challenge of its economic development , and is tied to its problematic relationship with pakistan . while china is a frequently cited candidate , its leadership has mostly focused on consolidating domestic order and sustaining artificially high economic-growth rates in order to stave off popular unrest . at the same time , russia is a full-ly-based economy , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and reassures russian influence in the middle east and europe . moreover , china ’s interests in regional and global institutions appear to have mostly been designed to energize its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than to help set the rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth decelerated steadily , to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , falling from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 , in order to contain both inflation and the property bubble , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . as a result , inflation has plunged in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices , for which the national bureau of statistics , unfortunately , have stopped issuing official figures , seem to be stabilizing , and may even have even fallen , albeit modestly . more to the point , the slowdown in china ’s pattern of gdp growth reflects some features of the authorities ’ success in recent years to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as of other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . successive rounds of growth may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china ; but they nonetheless prompted many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual growth .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a ethical standpoint , there is a strong case for making it work for respecting the woman ’s individual liberty and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing it to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by imposing unwanted or unsafe pregnancy far into the term . yet , owing to how rife with misinformation and muddies by misplaced arguments about the topic are , policy debates often go nowhere , unless they frame the abortion first and foremost as a medical issue .
madrid – every day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by the promise of work , resources , and improved lives , only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children grow up in a slum . at least half of those living in urban slums are under the age of 20 . with no access to education , that generation – which will soon be majority – has little hope of ever escaping its skewed conditions . yet , for how long will an absolute majority serve a minority ? the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , putting them off a path of global development agendas . with no access to education , that generation – which will soon become a majority – has little hope of ever fleeing its own highly straitened conditions .
new york – a world in which we live is a tiny garden of well-scrutinized territory surrounded by a dim and dark disaster of disaster . calamities are legion in its distances : droughts and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and plagues ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and un-human extinction ; and rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and sea-age ; disappearance of forests , farms , and fish ; and fish . the precautionary principle prescribes action , no cost , to prevent all . all of these disasters – and many more – remain to be definitive , and germany is unacceptable . the problem is that the principle can not be consistently applied .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , us economic policy has focused attention on the issue of unemployment . but employment is just one facet of welfare ; in today ’s world , that is not enough . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . the massive job losses of the great depression , reversed not only when world war i , and the massive debt-financed debt accumulated to finance it , the kick-started economic growth , had a lasting impact across at least two generations . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , iran could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the sino-american rivalry , by contrast , involves two economies that are closely integrated with each other and with the rest of the world .
that was done at the very behest of the united states , which at that time had been embroiled in the vietnam war and required , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia ’s island as an air and naval base . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where it was trafficked and left to fend for itself . from 1968 to 1973 , the british labour party and conservative governments orchestrated the removal of all members of the 55 islands that now comprise the british ocean territory ( biot ) , split off from mauritius at the height of its independence . this was done at the height of the united states , which at that time had been embroiled in the vietnam war and demanded , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia as an air and naval foundation . the british foreign office claimed at a time that the chagos islands do not have settled populations .
islamabad – last year , pakistan is witnessing a second such successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his side won the general election on an anti-corruption slogan . the hopes are high enough for a new administration that appears willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to attend pakistan ’s multitude of pressing challenges . and that shift would take place in a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not nurture a war .
in any case , the counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seem destined for an extended involuntary holiday . owing to the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue an emergency collateralized funding only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem when only your four largest banks go into trouble , and must ratify that counterparty is financially viable before any financing can be made at all . as the term implies , an emergency ” liquidity needs to be made available through systemically important financial institutions immediately – even as both are insolvent and fiscally insolvent . but the challenge of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is best left to the people , after the financial order has recovered . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently conceived countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
both the us and the ecb fear the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ” a greek default , after all , might have had the same global systemic effects that the collapse of lehman brothers did in 2008 . fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and indisposed to default without an emergency chest of liquidity to prevent a run on sovereign debt , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . at the same time , unless greece completely adjust its policies to restore fiscal and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the us and the ecb remains likely to prevent contagion risk to the rest of the eurozone periphery and a consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . sovereign spreads already are on pricing risks from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
sharing the mountainous – and porous – borders with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . human rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , where religion-based parties have broad support . such religious parties , a coalition of which now heads provincial governments in the northern western frontier province , have been politically marginalized until a pivotal role in pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert interventions in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . sharing the mountainous – and porous – frontier with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . throughout his rule , religion-based politics grew alongside that of madrassahs , as well as combatants trained and equipped by the pakistani and us intelligence services .
throughout its history , america has always aspired to insulate its markets from foreign competition . with america losing interest the chief prop up neo-liberal policies , it has now been pulled out . so , too , for a time , history has once more triumphed over the ideology of the us . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market is being invoked , but in practice the world seems to be reverting to a older , more durable model . it is steeped in denial that in the future , as in the past , the world will contain a diverse array of economic systems and regimes .
upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff . his hostility toward foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated a few american agricultural firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and kept production back . the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to gain control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . its hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated a few american state oil firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and kept production back . upon reasserting political control over foreign players in the sector , chávez fired a whopping 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both of iran ’s nuclear facilities offers yet another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against us interests and staff in iraq and afghanistan , and by using hamas and hezbollah to back hamas and hezbollah against israel and elsewhere . iran could also interfere with the issue of oil facilities , leading to a spike in prices and delivering another blow to the american and global economic recovery . moreover , while a preemptive strike would postpone iran ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear efforts , it would do little to stop the regime from rebuilding , and might also create the conditions that cause iran ’s domestic opponents to trouble . but , despite these potential drawbacks , the armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the immense strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
lord north is recalled for his loss of the british union with the america . two centuries on , former outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing two unions , with europe , and between england and scotland . and with northern ireland an obviously led by sinn fein , insisting a vote to reunify with the south , very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : first and foremost , the government should announce quickly that it will negotiate with eu membership by the eea . whereas the conservatives would like that idea that scotland would be in a post-europe without europe , the scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain .
the flood-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and a number of alawite minority members will fight for their survival . assad ’s aims for the war-style warfare have been downgraded to avoid a decisive defeat and won international legitimacy in the hope of a favorable political solution . a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly partition along sectarian lines . the rise of the islamic state has lend support to the government ’s claims that syria risks being overtaken by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s final days are unlikely to have much in common .
this is the narrative afflicting all segments of society , the middle class no less than the very rich . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society and have little need for government , it is n’t because that belief is totally equivalent to objective realities . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time portrays markets as self-reinforcing entities running on their own fuels . there is little reason to expect the super-rich to behave less selfishly than in any other party .
here , the only explanation still stands out is a shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of manufacturing , like manufacturing , toward less capital-intensive activities , like services . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire long-term unemployed ; increase public spending on infrastructure , educational attainment , and research to compensate for the shortcoming in private capital expenditures ; and still higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened the nonbank regulation of financial institutions to prevent excessive risk-taking . finally , central banks should set an even higher inflation target in order to give them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown . but while it can explain why capital expenditures have been weak , and policy interest rates have been low for the last three years , there can be no mistaking why capital spending has been inadequate to prevent rates from recede in more than three decades . if disorder has multiple causes , then there should be multiple remedies .
once again exposure to western values has delivered another village of potemkin ; russia presents a façade of law and democratic institutions , but by far behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine in its previous presidential election , and on time off again , criminal charges brought against an opposition leader , yuliya tymoshenko . the danger for the world is that putin ’s brand of lawlessness . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy is taking root . the supposedly civilizing sphere of influence in which he has become a western partner — chairman of the g-8 summit in saint petersburg , for example — appears to have lost his kremlin cabal .
there are far too many entry barriers for the poor , innovative and those without access to credit . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people receive only enough they to survive in the eu to participate productively in the society . a democratic latin american limps sideways , because it can not run things before they do . in latin america , countless people live with outsized hands . throughout the region , politicians that the late writer enrique peña paz once referred to “ philanthropic ogres ” create eu clients , people who expect eu demand .
instead , indexes persevered comprises variables – what they refer to as “ “ policy space ” – which are supposed to make either competitiveness or inclusive growth possible . yet this is not what those indexes actually measure . instead , indexes do include variables – what they refer to as “ “ “ policy space ” – that are , by definition , being able to cause either competitiveness or to inclusive growth . ” two examples of this show the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index . but this is hardly what those indexes actually measure .
starting in the 1960s and 1970 ’s , those writing about the netherlands often lamented an “ dutch disease . ” so much generous subsidies , grants and transfers were made , directed at everybody from the truly needy to artists , unable to sell their labor – that after-tax salaries often hardly exceed the benefits . whether one considered the dutch welfare state to be humane and generous or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse had taken a heavy toll on the economy . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch responded to their past excesses with an array of policies intended to support a return to labor in the formal labor market . as of the 1960s and 1970 ’s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” thus , people seldom made ever return to work after they lost or leaving the labor force , or did so in the underground economy , with its unreported cash payments .
yet substantial segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america slips into recession in the months ahead , trump will be re-elected . moreover , their prognosis is based not simply on fear of being wrong once again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome , and some might even hope for it . at that point , comparisons with the 1930s inevitably come to mind . of course , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but , in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large parts of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when adolf hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
in order to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , providing street opportunities , whatever their backdrop , to ascend the income ladder . in order to make progress , market mechanisms are not enough to achieve this . governments must take action , complement their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that the gains are shared much more equitably and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have tried to address rising inequality with progressive redistribution policies . south korea ’s administration , for example , recently announced that it would raise its federal minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 championed ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
still , the egyptian artillery was superior , and it was supposed to be at least silenced by kurdish tanks ’ firing on foot . egyptian defenses had blocked a central highways across sinai with an enriched box comprising powerful artillery and over 100 tanks , fronted the three parallel , trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at every turn . sharon had his forces ascended over the sand dunes to enter the drench lines at their summit , and attacked their length from it – a simple maneuver that egyptians may defeat has they failed to coordinate with an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them . israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights for their helmets , in such a way that tank gunners might direct their fire at egyptians just ahead of them . but paratroopers , flying through helicopter gunships suddenly jumped the egyptian gun crews , who never stood in hand-to-hand combat .
such certifications are all the more significant in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . indeed , in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses in conventional first-aid courses . in the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , owing partly to the requirements that individuals in specific positions , such as child-care workers , now have their own first-aid certificate . requiring that people in particular occupations – including highly qualified teachers , nurses , and police officers , to acquire a mental-health first-aid certificate – would substantially enhance participation , thereby boosting support for those who are struggling with mental-health problems . pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of resource-poor communities with limited resources .
in response to this offer ( and to bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers myers myers , and bristol myers myers squibb announced that their readiness to supply the african market at “ zero yield ” – ie , at about $ 500 per patient per year on the aids drugs they produce . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people die of aids , even as their drugs exist to treat them , raises profound questions about global intellectual-property rights , because such patent protection is an obstacle to essential medicines reaching the world ’s poor . yet the costs of production of such drugs far below the market price are far less than the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 a year on some of the three-drug-combinations used for treatment . some quality manufacturers of generic drugs , such as cipla in india , have been offered to make these medicines available at prices near their peak near the cost of production . but how can the benefits derived from the global patent system provided to provide incentives for innovations and new discoveries co-exist to provide assurance that the poor get the access to the medical care they desperately need ?
he seems to have restructured french politics . but what if populist movements ’ continuing electoral success helps drive forward a wider party of political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ? having never held elected office , macron has created a new governing party , one that was centered on itself , with eu support from both center-left and center-right voters . that reading is reinforced by macron ’s own experience . next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such a political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , covering time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” featured salome karwah , a us nursing assistant who not only survived an ebola epidemic in her native liberia that year , but also helped waves of patient visits at her ebola ward off . karwah was a hero who met a tragic end . one year ago , it died from preventable complications in childbirth , a killer that each month takes double that number of lives every month than the entire ebola epidemic . in the nineteenth century , just as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended in dying . one year ago , she died from preventable complications during childbirth , a killer that had taken double that number of lives every month than the entire ebola epidemic .
meanwhile , unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments seem naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens the jobs they need . the rest of the region has been keen to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . an estimated two million syrians currently live in turkey , with more than one million living in jordan . most are in keeping with refugee camps , with many working – for the most part – for the bulk of them .
but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal basic authority of “ american values . ” the problem with obama ’s america is rooted in the conflicted character of his us leadership . now , with america ’s policymakers talking about “ freedom , ” people see bombing campaign , torture chambers , and the constant threat of lethal drones . one reason why america elected obama in 2008 seemed that the rhetoric of american idealism had once again led to the deaths and displacement of millions . the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to the war in afghanistan and iraq were undoubtedly complicated .
this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – by design . in the past , such a merging of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained away as a simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance . but that ’s because bush did n’t start to tackle an issue that is looming ever bigger in the region : the changing face of security in asia , given china ’s rising economic and military might . this was followed by russian news reports that , between china and india , the us would conduct a trilateral military exercise , known as the “ indira 2005 ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” on equal scale before the end of this year .
anticipatory city planning , based on genuine demographic forecasts , patient registries , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , need to be realigned . they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibility that they need to address health and health-care outcomes . proven systems and reform policies should be shared among emerging-market cities , with successful new innovations and ideas built into local settings . this includes new and affordable technologies , such as low-cost , community-based mobile telephony for use by community-health workers . emerging-market governments must address the critical issues arising from weak transboundary coordination , with between , among other things , national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs .
shanghai – tight media controls of the unrest in tibet have been followed by what , to some , looks like much more open-minded coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . that question stands out given chinese public opinion in the latter phases of the tibet crisis . much to the western media ’s consternation , the chinese people worldwide lashed out against their supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt . that question stands out given chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . much to the western media ’s consternation , the chinese people worldwide lashed out against their supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt .
meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( polymers of glucose ) that was also transported to light , via a glycolycolycolytic pathway , breaking down for power . and nature did its part by supplying all of its most natural foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as energy sources , rather than both . any excess glucose that stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and that also gave birth to the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears stayed healthy . so , too , for them , their livers have remained healthy .
there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won the fight against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has only become less visible . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population but is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and 34 million more people living with hiv/aids who require treatment to stay alive . across africa , the disease is projected to lower its average national future growth rates by 2-4 percentage points annually .
the uk would have to accept the kinds of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing the decisions it holds no part of shaping . even the us has declared itself reluctant to negotiate a standalone free-trade agreement with the uk . leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the bri ’s economy , particularly its financial sector . remaining in the single market would nonetheless come at a cost – one that british voters might not support . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it would be left on its own , out of the economic cold .
as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly affect the withdrawal process and its ultimate outcome . the first is managing the transition to afghan control , which depends on the disorderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the second is the election , also to be held in may 2014 , following a process that must permit the united states and its nato allies to assert plausibly that they are handing the country over to legitimate governments . for afghanistan , war-ravaged by war without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the economic endgame will be even notional . how america ’s military leaves would enter another period of great political and strategic insecurity , after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic society knowingly walk into a predictable , avoidable national disaster is a rare , alarming , and alarming experience . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on post-brexit ties will do enormous damage to their countries . and that shift would happen at a time of mounting challenge to us interests elsewhere in the world . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might be accurate only in the short term . the normalization of relations with america is key to cuba ’s liberalization of its own . after all , such changes are best served not by either the imposition of stifling sanctions or through the military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement through outside powers . that is no longer an option , either . in fact , even beyond america ’s best efforts to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes would probably doomed its long – and already much-diminished – backing of the castro government .
while countries have not descended entirely into protectionism since the global financial crisis erupted , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets , while trying to build up external competitiveness . but , while vigilance may be in order , the odds that the major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating genuine currency wars in the process , are slim . indeed , in recent years , much policy activity has tended to focus directly or indirectly on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . but claims that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry risk to the “ much stronger ” exchange-rate politicizing misses a mark . it is well known that weidmann does not like it when central banks , especially the european central bank , have been buying up sovereign bonds .
the us census bureau projects that america ’s population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . moreover , while studies suggest that a short-term , direct measurable national-level economic contribution is relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants may be the importance of particular economic sectors . not only are immigration relevant to economic power ; on the contrary , given that almost all other developed countries are aging and face a burden of lending to the older generation , this could help lessen the policy dilemma . today ’s america is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now it still is likely to be third only ( after only china and india ) . a 1 % increase in the number of immigrant college graduates thus results in a 6 % rise in patents per capita .
in fact , only two of the six big economic tasks identified by the job conference fit neatly with a third plenum of this strategic agenda . the call for a strengthened social safety net is in line with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned firms ’ profits to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care . likewise , the single-minded emphasis on markets ’ “ critical role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with a third plenum ’s goal of bringing about a market-based shift toward a consumer society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ kitchen sink ” approaches to chinese economic policymaking , myriad proposals , and goals that are loosely associated , as well as that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed , and it will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
it defies economic logic to think that the global economy , including europe , will escape its consequences . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the us economic slowdown do the job . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will depress energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind the eu ’s currently elevated inflation level . the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is falling headlong into a severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cut in speaking volumes to this . as europe ’s gdp growth slows , so will inflationary pressures .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras appears intent on changing that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia might once again become a menace to the continent . as a result , whereas hungary paid gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic feet of gas , poland is paying $ 526 , the eu ’s highest prices . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy have quickly fallen to line politically , enabling putin to use the country ’s vast oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . the poles have paid a steep price , but they have been right . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems intent on changing that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently cautioned that russia might once again become a menace to the continent .
but , while accusations of biopiracy may have an emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little practicality . in fact , biopiracy is rare – so rare that there can be no direct solution . instead , the world created a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , crop breeding , and establishing intellectual property . the seed treaty achieves this by creating a multilateral system for access to a agreed-upon list of agricultural genetic resources . at the same time , the seed treaty was brought under the control of its parties , as well as the attorneys of 15 research institutions that comprise the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global partnership for research .
moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term in office , non-state media are now criticizing his economic and political agenda . it has also reduced the resources that are being channeled to certain religious institutions , assisted those in his circle by loosening regulation of the private sector , and challenged iran by the most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , it appears unlikely that the disgraced , unpopular , unpopular president mahmoud ahmadinejad would abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has widened , support for the president has declined markedly , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as the “ deviation circle . ” in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei curbed his illicit efforts – and has now put a stop to mashai ’s candidacy utterly .
as the economist marco fortis points out , italian family wealth remains , if not long , second only to none in europe . under monti ’s leadership , the reforms were initiated at last , and the markets were calmed . in order to enhance italy ’s creditworthiness , monti ’s government substantially raised taxes , particularly on the real estate sector , while preserving persistently record-high income-tax rates . indeed , the tax plan stressed that italy , like japan ’s , is a country of public debt and private wealth . beyond growing international credibility , the two major changes to italy ’s political landscape shaped the electoral campaign .
one of the most difficult lessons for top government officials to teach – ­ including for me when i was the australian attorney general and the foreign affairs minister – is both an futility , in every but a miniscule minority of cases , of trying to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . typically , prosecution brings a boosts of leakers ’ stature , making it unnecessary as a deterrent . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to be possible , just as an area of privacy in our personal and family lives is crucial to sustaining relationships that matter most to us . this does not undo its original damage , and usually compounds it with further publicity . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than they see it reddening face , with their barrage of rage or humiliation , of those in power .
she wants to pull out before voters realized that the leave campaign had sold them a bogus bill of goods , including voters ’ vow that they could retain all the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without allowing for free movement of labor . this helps to explain may ’s desperation to push brexit through as much as possible . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly warning “ “ wins ” in the eu . ” clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that satisfies both groups . moreover , while may has remained ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , because prime minister theresa may will be held accountable for any failures in the brexit negotiations .
among other things , such surveys should aim to develop a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , rampant violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . in order to complement such efforts , we must also invest in upgrading our understanding of how these hazards are – most often studied when it comes to early childhood and adulthood – affecting adolescents ’ health . more studies are required to inform health policy and planning adequately . data-collection efforts should also incorporate a focus on mental-health policy . according to the global toll of disease study , health factors account for at least 50 % of early death and disability in adults aged 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops to up to 26 % .
but talk about regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter politics . thus , in a protracted conversation with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf implied that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that might save the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . ” pakistan those days are a troubled country politically , as are economically taboo . only a politician with the backing of major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate whom the army could back .
with policymakers effectively rewarding themselves for myopic thought , western democracies are finding themselves struggling to secure stable long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china does not . there are at least two ways to work on this issue in the democratic context . first , governments might be bound more decisively to their predecessors ’ political decision-making . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has already been discussed and enacted will actually have the time to take effect , with no risk that it will simply repeal the successive us administration . the european union provides one example of how long-standing binding commitments might work .
at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi , has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be held prominently on any politician ’s agenda running for election , at every level of government . for the sdgs to become operational , education must receive a higher bilaterally , nationally , and globally . indeed , the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending to education . moreover , the ongoing decline of aids to education must be reversed , and new funding sources , such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists , must be mobilized . this starts with the political will and setting the priorities .
the nbu ’s us leadership understands that it must act to contain the inflationary effect , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties its hands ties to the us , because it blocks them to raise interest rates sufficiently . rationing is always worse than markets are . instead , they have reverted to tight reserve requirements , effective credit rationing , and thereby causing a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , very likely inducing some industrialized banks to go bankrupt , owing to their liquidity problems . as a result , ukraine ’s money-supply currency , f-3 , has exploded by no more than 52 % year on year , which pointing to an inflation hitting 30 % soon . ukraine ’s current refinance rate at 16 % per year , at 10 % , less than the rate of inflation that means that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year .
the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united front among the arab states , with the support of turkey , the us , and , in some ways , israel . iran would then find it harder to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position would become increasingly complicated even in iraq , despite its own shia majority . at the same time , the first worries about iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – and the struggle that scuttled a last-minute diplomatic solution , given that neither the conservatives nor the reformers were prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . one can only hope that , given its seriousness , that this path toward failure will be sealed off . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role .
as mark leonard , the european council ’s director for foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe has come and gone . ” its lack of vision , divisions , an obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy contrasts sharply with the united states more dominant even than rome ’s , yet the problem is not europe , it is our outdated understanding of power . the eu ’s ’s eu-sharing approach , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict by multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama , but becoming increasingly relevant across a networked and interdependent world . as mark leonard , the european council ’s director for foreign relations , put it , “ “ the conventional wisdom ” is that europe came and gone . ” its absence of vision , the divisions , its obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy are contrasted to the united states to become more dominant even than rome … .
tehran , iranians will head to the polls on june 12 to elect their new president . iran ’s ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has said repeatedly in public settings that he will fail to declare his preference among the candidate . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei has said , “ there were some resignations ” that i support a peculiar candidate for the presidential election . but i do have one vote , and i would not establish a certain candidate , because the people themselves should elect their candidates on the basis of their own knowledge . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is mostly far from clear .
but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes , as individuals increase their earnings and offset the shift from the fringe benefits of taxable cash . while it is possible to lower the budget deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will imply faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . likewise , moving to a stability-oriented territorial tax system will raise us taxable income , particularly in the short run , as corporations repatriate some of the existing overseas money . there is important legislative reason why the projected budget will revert to surplus . the republican party holds only a very slight majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule requires a three-fifths majority to pass most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block the republican tax agenda .
combining them has brought its own asylum system close to collapse ; separating them would help ensure that those amid fears for their lives can receive a fair hearing in which their rights are protected . and policymakers must not wait until after the next migration crisis is brought into effect before that scheme is signed . second , it is up to europe to deal with economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . at the same time , the eu must reassert its operation sophia anti-refugee initiative in the mediterranean region . addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu requires effective blue-– or a green-card policy for economic migrants with an overall immigration target .
in both cases , efforts to defend a fixed exchange rate against capital-flow reversals have been a major factor , as was true in turkey in the year leading up to its currency collapse in june 2001 . emerging-market bulls point to the fact that most major middle-income countries have substantially reduced their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal room they lack in the past . but neither the mexican had “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis caused large public-debt deficits . will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring with it greater emerging-market problems this year ? to what extent are ’s conditions comparable to those triggered by the asian crisis of 1997 or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ?
one option is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and average working life , which extends up to the age of 70 – and to even higher ages if healthy life expectancies continue to rise . already , many people in their great fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working their 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , younger people have long for more time to spend on training , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . both desires can be fulfilled if societies allow the older people to work more years , and let everybody work fewer hours . such a reform could take place over a few decades without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
denmark ’s government has done just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public about the idea of joining the euro . it is that the commitment by which the eu is currently tied . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a yes vote in a referendum now appears so implausible as to be on the move . british public opinion nowadays is so unfriendly to the eu generally and to europe , in particular , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . indeed , “ bouncing ” britain in this is simply impossible .
whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel-cells will curb us oil imports over the long term , such measures will require major changes in transportation infrastructure , which will require decades to complete . more fundamentally , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulations . a recent bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies this new coalition . whereas the bush administration remains skeptical about science after such projections , some state and local governments are studying measures to cut co2 emissions . the middle class of such scenarios has been considered through the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost triple their pre-industrial levels in 2100 .
people in those fields are ultimately being bought and sold by corporate managers as much as by people in tech fields . at the same time , they should make investments to acquiring communication skills that will be similarly critical to successful careers . to achieve this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds interesting and engaged , whether that is a finance or physiology . no one makes it all the way forward in the business world . the key point that for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate ourselves to reclaim a deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , of subjects they study to fulfill the role of true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue .
but this day is also about spreading the message in the name of elizabeth , and of other women like her : abortion , whereas in many countries the political wedge issue is simply an inherent fact . but this day , too , is about spreading the message on behalf of elizabeth and other women like her : forms of abortion , whereas in many countries a political wedge issue is simply an established reality . abortions emerge in each country , as well as within every socioeconomic class . but abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services often remains limited . in the united states , as many as 61 % of abortion patients in their twenties , 59 % are already mothers and almost two-thirds identifying with an organized religion .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , because they will understand that this would merely lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . there is no harm in this argument ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough stance from an tough ecb . the ecb should not delude itself into thinking that small increases in interest rates will suffice . when , and at a time when wage pressure is growing , the ecb , to remain true of its word , may be forced to raise interest rates far more than it now expects .
last month , the united states considered legislation aimed at stopping internet piracy . bills were written at urging hollywood studios and publishing and documenting and documenting industries , arguing that online copyright violations cost america ’s 100,000 jobs . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that the megaupload was merely providing storage for its subscribers owned files , with no control over what it store . megaupload allowed its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , tv shows and music , as well as some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertisements and subscriptions ) was on display at its mansion near auckland , retaining its rolls-royce and other exotic automobiles . but , megaupload offered cash rewards to users who were uploaded files that proved popular with any other user .
moscow – when the opening ceremonies of the beijing olympic games start in a few days , viewers will be made with the minutiae of a minutiae choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders sought to turn public space and sports events into a visible proof of their fitness and mandates to govern . to be sure , the images that recall disse-stepping trose-stepping storm troopers are the last thing china ’s leaders seem to have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of “ harmonious development . ” but , at both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by choosing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and the designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a lord plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical steremeans of asserting itself as a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . in order to regain their credibility , economics urgently needs to become much more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . but it has also made the subject less relevant , reducing its own legitimacy and trustworthiness . the inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely . economists no longer see much of the public asking the right questions , or trying to answer them with integrity .
and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . the united states is reckoning with a more psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability and global leadership . europe is in the throes of multiyear economic , political , and institutional crises . on the contrary , china is dynamic and outward-looking – giving good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnership with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) .
in keeping with china ’s recent push to project its own “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the notion of a historic but dynamic culture at its best . other than that presence for quite a few people ’s liberation army troops , you would have been hard pressed to find any palpable evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . many of the artists involved making the spectacle , including the fireworks displays of cai guo qiang , france ’s star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , earned their glory primarily in the west . equally significant was china ’s projection as the nascent leader of the new international cultural order . the “ bird ” nest ” stadium was the formation of the herzog & de meuron ’s transnational design team , with suggestions from the visual artist ai weiwei .
my research , which comprised thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they already do on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but particularly in the developing world , is by promoting financial autonomy . in many areas that means promoting “ informal savings groups , ” a network of like-minded women who are paying dues to build a shared pool of resources . that money can then be channeled through funding any number of items such as small-scale business spending , school enrollment , or health-care costs .
president putin 's behavior at this summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks of the europeans ; not too much . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spread worldwide , particularly to the other side of the atlantic . politically and economically , the leaders of china and india are more relevant today than some members of the european g8 countries . thus , the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions made by any putative world government , but the fact that the g8 days now seem to be numbered .
though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research shows that the eu-epas , as negotiated , will probably concentrate minds on a few agricultural products and exclude the least-developed countries . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some of the catastrophic losses . in most areas , the epas will indeed harm intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-fueled industrialization in africa . some argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the potential benefits brought by increased market access will take longer to emerge . african leaders are right to be concerned .
in 1995 , for example , the smithsonian institution in washington sought to take a fresh look at the enola gay , an airplane that dropped a atomic bomb on hiroshima . in 1995 , for the americans , there had been `` a heroic or triumph '' account , in which the atomic bombings represented the ultimate blow against an aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . john dower , the american academic and specialized specialist of modern japan , studied the question at length . he demonstrated how this choice can be made and measured in totally different ways : from an american or japanese point of view , although no one makes facts or any falsifies the sources . on the contrary , there were differences between the selection and the mix of data .
it would have to paved the way for the real issues down the road , rather than end the brexit debate . it would have to paved the way for the october 17 meeting of the european council , in which europe ’s leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the whole process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the latvia team , which had spearheaded the eu ’s previous negotiating process . any new deal will be potentially ’s old pact with several bells and whistles . that , show , has now years to run .
likewise , our inability to come together to stem syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war-crimes tribunals against his own people has left the void fill by putin and iran . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , in particular , have busily constructing illiberal intra-eu states . european leaders , too , shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , are acting to defend common european interests . likewise , our inability to come together to stem syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war-crimes trials against his own people has left the void fill putin and iran . poland ’s leaders , too , shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests .
for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable regimes to interact across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain their value as they moved with those who earned them . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of utility systems . in order to deliver opportunity and security to everyone , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet the workforce ’s urgent – and evolving – needs . a common framework must also be built , so that such programs can be scaled up and implement in different contexts .
moreover , even without a timely fix , brazil will react to crisis far different from mexico ’s . if and when the two end , brazilian policymakers lift few tears for international investors . on the surface and below , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation is down to negligible levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are worried about their own well , rather than the prosperity of foreign investors . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers went to awe of wall street ; brazil has n’t had so much hanging up .
but do n’t desperation : there is still time to save our climate , as we know it . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , as well as using land , will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into farming and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked out of forests and soils . but , while techniques like these are already being developed will require increased use of no-eat farming , adopting principles of permaculture , better management of wetlands , and using rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . the strength of markets to drive radical shifts in energy and land use is great , but , as the 2017 storm season should remind us , a climate emergency that we currently face demands vigorous and urgent action .
but , after former president barack obama tried to redress america ’s health-care catastrophe with halfway measures , it is arguably the most politically feasible now that the time it will come , those vying for the democratic nomination apparently have more ambitious agendas . but their proposals – a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , a national public health-care service , or something else – do not mean much of the same thing . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , kamala harris , and boeing – disagree completely on the details of such schemes , or simply have n’t spelled them out entirely . warren , meanwhile , has designed introducing universal childcare , to be funded by a wealth tax on fortunes over $ 50 million . many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-sponsored health care .
they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who appear no differently from a earlier crop of politicians who over-sold them by the gains of globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ? but there is another explanation , one that coincides with rationality and self-interest . voters are more likely to be attracted to candidates with anti-establishment credentials , and they can safely be expected to deviate from prevailing policies . when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they are making . in the language of economists , centrist politicians are facing the problem of asymmetrical information .
new delhi – president paul kagame ’s landslide reelection last year had more to do with power than with a country of democracy . while kagame remains popular , his government was criticized for choking free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . today , the leaders in rwanda who are widely regarded as an african success story have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . the conclusion that i draw is not that human rights do not matter ; rather , political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained progress on economic and institutional governance . politically , rwanda is a strong , disciplined , organized manner , but not a liberal one .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on threshold levels of safety , stability , and predictability . continued economic progress in the developing world and healing in the developed world requires preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering large , systemic shocks . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing so : nobody benefits from spreading systemic risk . it is this threshold that seems under threat . in terms of currency priorities , it arguably has more to do with g-20 governments to bolster crucial systems that enable global flows of global trade than is intended to address strictly economic issues .
washington , dc – participants at the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that big banks were never properly investigated for subprime-mortgage origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior central to the financial crisis – and loss of more than eight million jobs . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently targeting reported abuses in servicing their mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their inhabitants . but , owing to the efforts of new york attorney general eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussions began in the united states on an out-exposed court of mortgage settlements between the state attorney general between the state attorney general and prominent financial-sector firms . if these charges are true , bank executives engaged in the fear that civil lawsuits will uncover evidence that could be used in criminal prosecutions . but leading banks are also charged with illegal behavior , inducing people to borrow by , say , redeceiving them about the very interest rate that would actually be bailed out , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities on investors .
“ across rivers and down the highways and along innumerable jungle routes , east pakistan ’s population is growing hemorrhaging to india : the unorganized flow of refugees with just a few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and a ragged clothes piled onto their heads , putting their sick children and their old . they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces are telling the story . ” they pad along barefooted , with a fed-sucking sucking at their heels in wet part . others have cholera , and once the roadside has die there is no one to bury them . many are sick and covered by sores , of course .
a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , exiting german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order . now a global spotlight , it is turning to france and its looming presidential election . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that has driven european integration , keeping it at the center of the post-war multilateral system . accusations of currency manipulation and the threat of protectionist steps have intensified . with the uk giving the eu freer trade of the 1840s , the old atlantic charter allies now decide to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods .
new york – when i was the bright-eyed eighth grader in my home native sri lanka , i could n’t wait for my first-sex education class . millions of young people around the world have similar experience , often with serious adverse consequences . in our precased teens , my classmates , and i have been as curious as we have been clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , rather than receiving robust answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply passing a book , told ourselves to read a specific chapter and leave to figure things out on our own . after its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the american could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own solar-powered moonshot , libra , fares there have already provided a wake-up call to firms and policymakers around the world .
four decades after the nixon shock , ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon had visited is history . as the us reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it also stands as the opportune time to consider how china continues its rapid decline , in overcoming the systemic hurdles to its long-term success . global reintegration has , for example , turned china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest volume exporter , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from its mines in africa to apple in the united states .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but that is only a downward shove to an economy that was already slowing down as it makes the move from an export sector – and investment-led growth to a more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . how much of the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the inherent contradiction between an ever-more highly centralized party-led political system and a need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could drop quite dramatically . a significant chinese slowdown may already be unfolding as well . unfortunately , the possibility that china can avoid a shift toward a low-cost , consumer-driven growth model and continued export - and real-estate investment is not highly attractive , either . while china is already the dominant global exporter , neither market space nor political exuberance is enough to enable it to sustain its earlier pace of export-led expansion .
the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its failure to promote democracy itself . the arab world is facing major problems that were previously possible only with a more flexible , democratic political system . a well-educated global citizenry is also essential if today ’s young men and women obtain the skills they need to perform the kinds of jobs that today ’s globalized and competitive world demands . alas , instead of making headway , what we are seeing is a cycle of insufficient educational opportunity that leads to poor economic opportunity . democratic politics requires an informed citizenry able to question its government .
with kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council has remained typically silent , while europeans have denounced everything and everyone involved . absent any coherent policy , conditions were ripe for a crisis . as foreign-policy disasters go , this is one for record books . but the seeds for this greater conflagration were sowed long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . the us president has threatened to wreck turkey ’s economy if it does as it has enabled it to do .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . and such an approach would cement the picture that a central-bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” relishing elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices that they control . a somewhat less risky and time-tested path for stimulating demand would be a significant increase in government-funded government infrastructure investment . from a macroeconomic perspective , the case for infrastructure investment is a twofer ” state – that it boosts productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and that undertakes capacity , depresses demand , output , and employment with a significant short-lived multiplier effect . but a dda money program , a fanciful thought when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 , would likewise produce a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an excess of prudence of citizen and investor perceptions , trust , and solid governance structures .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion annually by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improve its safety standards , or speeding up trains . as a result , railroads are run out of money before they are run out of plans . and , if all this were not bad enough , india ’s leadership does not seem to recognize the challenges the rail current . in a country where rail travelers can not even expect a clean toilet , let alone the on-time path , prime minister narendra modi has spoken out about introducing bullet trains – most recently in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . indeed , in the last 30 years , there has been only 317 of the 676 parliamentary projects sanctioned by parliament , leaving it hard to imagine how railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects .
in fact , there is a profound divide between left-leaning “ blue ” towns and right-leaning “ red ” states in which many are located . for their part , cities often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity , including , say , michael bloomberg ’s governmental innovation program , a fuse corps , achievement for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafacts . and there are many ways that national governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” in its processes , state and local governments are often assumed to pursue the same goals .
we need to look beyond these figures to identify who really are responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . thus , let us start with an “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the far right political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the us and the united kingdom – not to mention its native australia – for the sake of profit and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks may just have patented the recipe of brexit , dog-whistle politics that fueled trump ’s rise and brexit vote . only by identifying the sources of the odious virus now will our democracies be able to take practical steps to the quarantine circle .